Good day. Hello everybody. Brian here
from quantlabsnet.com.
I'm going to be showing you some very
powerful things here uh with AI and how
it's advanced and how cheap it is now
with what I built out a week ago or so.
um going to explain the future. If
you're looking for a job career or
you're on the other side of being in HR
uh in one of these quant training firms
or any firm really, I'm going to show
you what you can do now to really throw
off a lot of cheaters on the interview
session or if you're on the other side
trying to get into quant coding,
research, whatever. I am going to show
you now best way on the cheapest way to
really understand the questions that are
going to be thrown at you. Uh as you
know as everything's much more expensive
now. So let's get to it.
Welcome. All right. So what you're
looking at is the pretty well the final
strategy uh report I can put out daily.
This case I'm using futures only. Uh I
could do that a whole separate video on
that. Um I'll do that maybe another day
or so. Anyways, but this is the kind of
video uh things you can get for trading,
setting up strategies, details of why,
what drives it, the calls. These are
just basic basic stuff any trader should
know. I can generate quite a lot of
these uh strategies per day here in the
JavaScript which is again all available
in my website at quantlabsnet.com.
This is the all news-driven just for the
last day one day's worth of trading
news. Okay, for the fut market where
everybody in most firms are trading a
lot most likely with options and futures
as well. And you could see here the
breakdown of uh what uh trade why they
traded the target on the expected uh
sharp ratio winning ratio blah blah blah
blah blah blah. So out of any of these
particular strategies an HR person can
go and ask
uh just on one strategy. Okay. Um on any
of these so in here we could focus on
any of these. So I'm I'm just going to
focus on let's say Ethereum. Okay. So
here's uh the logic of this strategy.
Okay. Now here are key here drivers
technical positioning how to set up the
macro drivers
uh the typical execution and risk notes.
This is what a typical quant quoter will
get from a trading desk. they will be
expected to be able to this up fully
with little hesitation and and and and
and get this uh ready for coding
production within probably a few hours.
If you're not able to do this, then
don't even bother getting into this
field. There are, as I said, ways to get
around this. So, let's take a look at
some of the solutions here. So I'm about
to show you can get it into the trial of
the these one reports. We have a trial
on the quant analytics you can get for
free at quantlabsnet.com.
On the coding front, what I recommend
you do is to get from my HFT code.com
site this Algo trader pro blueprint
which will help you at a shockingly
cheap price. The AI says this should be
at least $200.
Okay, so let's just get into this. So,
here I've got my typical project already
set up with the basics and and I've
added some real world strategies I'm
going to focus on. In this case, we're
going up against rhythmic uh trading
API. I've done millions of examples of
that instead of Interactive Brokers. You
can do the same thing I'm about to show
you with that with that interactive
brokers one as well. No different. But I
want to show you how sophisticated this
is. Okay. So, we're using uh the Kilo uh
extension here, Kilo AI in uh in uh VS
Code, the standard programming editor
IDE. You can do this with any language,
but to keep the interviewing easier for
people, they'll probably keep the Python
uh use Python. So, let's go back to our
original.
So, here's a proposed strategy. We are
going to use something called an
Ethereum short fade. You better know
what that means before you go into an
interview. You better know what that
means before you start sending out
resumes. I've talked about that many
times before. So, let's copy this.
Okay. So, what I'm going to do here, I'm
just going to put it in my editor here.
I am going to uh copy that there. So
just to show you how easy this thing is
or how sophisticate it is. Um this is
now going to use uh the the um Quen
coder
net the latest version of Quinn. Quinn
is absolutely probably in neck and neck
with Miniax
on the cost side. So literally for every
query you put out you're going to pay no
more than a penny. So this is g this is
going to like to tell people do not
waste your time on books. Do not waste
your time on the the counselors for
career and any of this stuff and
especially don't pay money to
third-party websites for the same thing.
You are literally going to waste your
time. Okay, I am going to tell you that
right out of the gate. So um let's just
start with the basics. So let's say and
so right now you can see here we have uh
coding and ask mode. So I've got the ask
mode on uh just some sample questions
here. Give me typical uh hard questions
if I was applying to
uh um I don't know jump street
uh quant trading or quant coding job.
Okay. So, uh, off it goes. And it's
going to, you can see how fast this is.
This is pretty incredible. So, this
query is not going to cost me more than,
um, a penny. Okay. So, um, so there it
is going out to do the API request
against quant. the more the more
specific the uh uh prompt is, the more
uh it takes time, but it's fairly fast
and it's going to take if a minute. I'm
just blabbing here as it does it. It's
very impressive. I asked it um let me
show you. So, I asked it for typical um
uh typical Citadel questions. It can do
that too. So, these are just typical
questions you can get for typical
questions. uh real citadel hard quant
coding interview questions with model
answers covering the domains they
emphasize probability stochastic
algorithmic trading and system design
probability fair coin question here's
the specific answer uh quant stock price
follow geometric motion okay so that is
another probability okay using GBM blah
blah blah blah algorithmic trading and
market microructure another typical
classification
It builds out the scenario build out
market making bought on exchange with 10
millisecond latency orderbook updates
approved UDP multiccast. How would you
design the system to minimize latency
and handle out of order packets? Now
again you can choose any model you want
on the AI to come up with this. You can
put in any company you want and it will
go out and it will well it you'll get
all the latest questions that are on uh
on uh on uh the web really for this type
of question. So you can do it by
company, you can do it by job. Um so
here it talks about lock free structures
uh statistical arbitrage identifying
pairs and stocks and co-integration.
uh and this is what you're expected to
answer with. Now, in this case, it's
it's it's asking for you to give a
coding sample exactly for this. Now, you
could do this day and night. You could
try to memorize this. I don't recommend
that. Um here's a rolling window
question. We have system design low
latency option pricing engine that
handles 100,000 quotes per second. Okay,
these are typical questions. So you're
going to ask for the pseudo code on the
on the Python volatility surface
interpolation
parallel processing memory pooling
caching standards and quantitative
finance and and these are very basic
questions you're going to be typically
asked if you if you're in you're you get
past the HR and your resume gets into
the inbox of these uh HR recruiters. So
here you got more programming squ
questions. Lock free circular buffer for
a single producer single consumer Q. How
do you handle the ABA problem? And
you're going to have to know what an ABA
is. Lock free circular buffer blah blah
blah blah with the code ABA problem
occurs when blah blah blah blah
financial math you would need to know as
well. European call option. Now these
are just generic questions. These are
going to be questions built around and I
keep saying it's going to be built
around futures and options 99% of the
time. So if you're not focused on quant
in futures and options, you're cooked
right out of the gate. Okay? And also
right in this market now for February
2026, you're going to be competing
against other people with IV league uh
PhD level experience. you're going to be
being against people that have been laid
off with 10 15 years experience
um in the field in in these kind of
companies. So that's your competition
right now. So let's go back to our VS
studio here and here's your answers.
Okay. So let let let me get this one
now. Okay. Now remember this is for jump
street. Okay. So these are just generic
questions. Okay. Now remember this this
one query prompt only cost me a penny
because I'm using a cheaper Chinese
model which I've gone on about penny to
get this you're about to see you're
building a match engine and this is now
in C++ low latency system now remember
jumpstreet uh must pro processes 1
million orders per second with sub 10
microscond latency current
implementation uses standard map order
book why is this suboptimal and what
data structure would you use instead? So
here's your answer. Key optimization.
Got to always explain that in front of
people. Explain the difference between
standard vector and standard DQ. When do
you choose one over the other? Here's
the table for it. The pros and cons with
the examples and the example calls.
Probability and statistics.
Okay. You observe 10 consecutive price
increases in stock. What is the pro
probability the next move is a decrease?
Assume that they're iid renewing with uh
probability of 0.5
as well. And these are very basic
questions. Your first goaround. Um so
you're going to pay money for what that
you think that's the static answer and
it gets worse. They think they're going
to get you in front of a quant
a quant uh expert. Believe me, this is
going to be the latest thing that um uh
uh a lot of uh firms would be interested
in on doing things like role play. Okay,
but you get the idea here. Okay, we've
done jumpstream specifically and we've
done Citadel. Okay, here's another one.
Implement VWAP strategy in Python uh
that calculates volume weighted average
price from tick. How would you optimize
it for real time processing? Okay,
voila. Now, let's get it where it's
going to get even more advanced. So, we
have some questions here. So, I'm going
to go into what I just showed you here.
This is really important to know. So,
I've got this Ethereum short fade. So,
let's say your interviewer just randomly
picks today's the news. We have this
potential thing happening with Ethereum.
This is expected once again that you
need to know. If you go any other way, I
think you're going to be wasting your
time and your money. Okay? Because what
I'm trying to prove now is that the idea
of these static questions are no longer
going to work. Why? Because it's this
makes it more dynamic based upon the
latest 24hour news cycle. One strategy
that I can pick out of really 30 just
for one day. Okay. So this is now I
think going to be the future. So you're
not going to be able to use this old way
of using all these third party rubbish
now.
when you have this now capabil
capability and at the same time you'll
be most likely forced into an
environment using I don't know VS code
then they're going to put you in front
of some kind of AI thing in this case
could be kilome or something similar so
now first thing is going to go as an
example and this is just for anybody who
wants to use
uh just creating strategies out of the
gate so how fast it is and how good it
is. Okay, so I'm still using Quen code.
Next, the latest from Quen. Okay, so now
I'm going to say create a Python trading
bot client. Okay, this is using my
current setup with a server in here and
a trading client bot, a a brand new one
from the get-go, but it's going to scan
all the current files in here. Okay. So
based on
these creating rules now it already
knows it's in Python. I could do this in
C++.
I could I could do it in Brainf as well
if I really wanted to. We're that
sophisticated.
So where where we're going here is using
this Ethereum short fade creating logic.
Okay. Now, this could this this trading
logic could come from a trading desk. It
could come from a portfolio manager, but
this is what they expect of you to be
able to do something like this very very
very quickly. Okay. So, now let's see
how long it takes.
So, here's the question. Now, it's going
to uh go out uh and do its thing. Uh
let's see what it's doing here.
So this is now requiring a coding
implementation,
right? So it automatically switched over
to code. Great. So now it's going in
doing its usual thing that you would
expect from an AI.
Okay. And as I said, you can use pretty
well any AI out any AI model out there
using the bring your own key, using the
kilo uh way they do it. It supports
pretty well anything. Okay. I'm using a
custom one using OpenAI um protocol.
Okay? And I don't reveal how I do it,
but I'm just giving you an idea how this
is to be done. So you can see how fast
is working right now. Now, typically if
you use
uh I've let me let me explain what I've
tried as of today with the latest
updated models.
Uh I've used Quen sorry uh Quad 4.6 six.
Uh they're all the same price. Okay. Um
so same quality code is the same. So you
can see here it's working. Uh I've done
it with codecs. I've done the latest
codecs, the latest Gemini Pro 3.1. I've
also compared against some Chinese ones.
I've done it against uh all the majors.
So um you can see here this is now
completely done. So now it's evolved.
it's going to go out and try to run the
strategy for you. Um, and it's going to
validate if it works or not. Um, and and
the old well the current architecture
set it up. Remember, it's going through
Reddus message queuing matching it up
with all the other scripts available in
this current project and it's connecting
into the uh C server and then those
calls are going to get translated for
the rhythmic API. Okay. Um that's for my
for my case. Okay. So you can see here
the code is is is pretty good. Okay. So
uh if you just go through the highlight
of the of this strategy here um you can
see here here's the sharp ratio 2.44
win ratio is 63%. We have uh some key
drivers behind it as I said BTC uh ratio
falling uh $36 million outflow from
Ethereum investment products. So that's
going to have a market impact that again
that just happened in the last 24 hours.
We have our positioning. What it's
saying is to decrease open interest on o
Ethereum perpetual less conviction from
long set up for accelerate breakdown
blah blah blah. And here's here's what
it's going to actually build is the
trading logic and rules. So it's going
to use perpetual contracts at 1 and a
half to 2 and a half% resistance zone.
Again, you have to know all this stuff
to explain when you start using it. And
most interviews now are done in office.
So you could throw out your idea of
using uh AI generation tools. I mean you
shouldn't use them and no employer
should have you use them. Okay. Avoid
this trade of BTC simultaneously claims
2% uh resistance blah blah blah blah. So
the whole thing is built around that.
And you can see here now
we have a working strategy. Okay. So I
could run it. I could deny it. I'm going
to say deny. Okay. So now this is where
it gets very interesting. So let's say a
HR person, coder, whatever testing your
knowledge. Okay, let's let's see what it
did here. Okay, so this is what the AI
did for this particular strategy for the
last, as I said, 24 hours with that one
news event. Um, quoting it as well. And
this is what it's done. Apply all
strategy rules for Ethereum short state.
Here's the summary. in all the position
uh position uh sizing for you entry
conditions target
uh target stops uh target Bitcoin
correlation check Ethereum Bitcoin uh
ratio monitoring uh it's also done
volume confirmation and funding rate
monitoring maxing your leverage and uh
giving you a time window along with the
CSV uh database logging here's the
strategy logic This is one strategy from
one day news event. Okay. Monitoring for
resistance. Confirm BTC. Ethereum
bitcoin ratios making new lows. Uh goes
on check BTC isn't reclaiming. Okay.
Blah blah blah. Run the bot. Okay. So
that's the new name of the bot. Ethereum
short fade. Okay. So that's the name of
our bot. So this is where it gets very
interesting. Tell me some hard
uh interview uh job interview questions.
Okay.
Questions for this strategy. So here you
can see tell me some hard job. I know
quant quant coder
uh let me just make sure now I'm doing
this live in front of you. quant coder
hard job interview questions fors in
code mode. So off it goes. You can see
how fast it is. Okay, we're going to
assume that this runs which it will um
under cloud uh
the new coder or codeex usually has a
capability to generate code flawlessly.
No no corrections are needed for the
iteration. This is how advanced we've
come. Okay. So, off it goes. It's
already It's already created. Oh,
actually, no. So, now it's doing its
thing. It's doing its uh checkpoints and
blah blah blah blah. This is where it
gets very interesting because why do you
need to spend money on this stuff, okay?
Outside of what I'm showing you here,
okay? Because what's going to happen is
it's going to give you real world
examples. You don't need to talk to
coding coach or quant whatever coach.
Each one of these prompts has said well
you will not spend more than one penny.
Okay, you can do this all day long and
you can see the quality of these
answers. So here it is. These are all
your answers. So I'm going to copy that.
Um so I think one thing I should tell
you is you you you can have it do a code
review as well if you want. Um but
whatever. Okay, so I'm going to
copy all this. This is f this is beyond
fascinating. I'm glad I'm not looking
for a job. If I was to look for a job,
I'd be using this technique
um to to hire people if I needed. I
don't think firms really need to have
employees anymore. Um so here you are
see the hard coder job interview
questions specifically for the Ethereum
short feed. Uh so this is typical with
technical depth the citadel jump to
sigma. First question now this is
strategy logic implementation
e the e short fade enters at a
resistance zone of so and so from a
local low. How would you detect and
prevent trading during the false
breakout where price briefly hits the
resistance zone but quickly reverses for
the order fills. Code is already there.
advanced follow-up. How would you use
the order book depth to confirm
resistant rejection? You're checking for
Now, the interviewer doesn't need to
tell you this, okay? If you're a junior,
they may do that. Large bid wall
resistant level, decreasing bid size,
increasing bid size. Here's my problem
with a lot of these pretty well uh
subpar
uh trading whatever third party
counseling. They tell you what they want
you to think on how to do coding
generally and even the world of quant or
or the world of just general trading
algo trading. You can see the difference
here between the interview. Yes, you're
going to be asked about coding, but
you're going to also be challenged on
the trading concepts that I've always
stressed in these interview processes.
Okay? You're usually going to go through
six, seven, 10, 20 interview qu uh
rounds. Okay? And then there's a bunch
of people running these third party
shops whining about why do you need to
uh have all these rounds. Well, I'm
telling you why. Because 99.9%
of the people out there can't get past
these kind of interviews especially if
they're not involving quant coding or
sorry quant creating knowledge. Okay,
these are very basic questions and
typical. So you can see here uh strategy
requires ETH Bitcoin ratio to make new
lows. How would you implement a robust
Ethereum uh Bitcoin ratio calculation
that handles the trading hours and
liquidity pattern of Ethereum versus
Bitcoin? They actually know the code
based around that. And again, you have
to make sure you follow within these
considerations.
They could ask you a risk management
question. your strategy fix four
Ethereum contracts regardless of account
size or volatility. How would you
implement dynamic position sizing on
volatility account equity and
correlation? Again, you got the code
with the trading considerations. How
would you implement a circuit breaker
system that pauses trading if the
strategy download exceeds certain
thresholds? Boom. Again, um then we get
into like how like look how far we are.
We're just right here out of 400 plus
lines. Mark market micro structure
gradually requiring blah blah blah blah.
How would you implement an order routing
algorithm that man man minimizes the
slippage coding? Okay. More
considerations statistical analysis and
back testing. How would you test for
overfitting in the strategy strategy?
It's just one strategy randomly picked
from today. The strategy claims 63% win
ratio and 2.44. How would you test for
overfitting in this strategy? What I'm
also telling you, you cannot cheat your
way through this. Impossible.
Impossible. And that's why these jobs
pay big money. They prefer people with
the experience. So, if you're coming in
from a junior level,
they may not be so challenging like
this, but let alone if there are any uh
any any oh, we'll call them red flags.
So if you don't know the basics here,
you're throw out. You're gone. Um if
your p value is this or walk for that
high parameter. So this takes lots of
years of experience to get into this
type of field. There are solutions of
course. Then we have latency
considerations. Okay. And you will be
challenged. And then we have probability
and stochastic processes.
Strategy has 3% 63% win ratio.
but only a 2.6 six to one risk rate
reward executed value for each trade and
how does compared to a strategy with a
50% win ratio and a 3% a 3 to1 risk
forward fair question right all the
different strategies they want to see
how you can analyze this okay
like I don't know and then and then you
have all the different strategies then
we can get into financial mathematics
now remember this is a quant
three times I said quantity
want research, want anything. You got to
know the math, how would you calculate
the value of risk and expected shortfall
for this strategy using uh a historical
stimulation? So, they may just give you
V. Yes. If you don't know this stuff,
you're cooked. Okay? Simple as that. Uh
so, some more examples. Okay? And
they're going to challenge you on these
answers. Okay? And then they're going to
ask you about inspolation and the
Ethereum short fade strategy.
Then we get into machine learning. Okay.
Alternative data. Let's say um so again
you strategy using flow Ethereum
investment pro product inflow. How would
you incorporate this alternative data
into your trading model?
Very simple stuff but 99.9% won't even
know what any of this is. Why are you
applying why are you considering going
into the quant field? Right? Use flow
data as a feature in a machine learning
lang uh model. High frequency trading
concepts. Good God. I get people asking
me all the time, if you can't answer
stuff like this, then well, you're
you're gone, right? How would you
implement a latency trading uh average
detection system to avoid being frontr
run by the front traders? See, here's
the pseudo logic right here. Okay.
System design and architecture. How
would you design a distributed system
for the strategy that can scale to
handle multiple uh pairs? Okay, same
thing. Here's your logic. Uh and again
that's just in Python. They may have
asked in C++ which is going to be
typical and if you're claiming to be an
FPGA well heaven help you if you don't
know.
So again key designs and principles
these questions cover the depth of
knowledge required for quant coder
positions at top firms. This strategy
provides a rich context for testing
understanding of probability system
design market microstructure and
statistical analysis. I could show you
another one. You'll have a totally
different set of questions and scenarios
you have to go through. And again, as I
keep saying, it is based upon how many
we got here? 20 in the last 24 hours.
And I could generate a new set for
tomorrow and have a new set of questions
that you most likely uh they can't
answer. So, um there's that. And and
then and then we haven't even talked
about uh this could be run by an a uh an
agentic front end. Okay. So um again if
you want to start properly and get
really interested on the ultra cheap and
as I said this thing the AI suggested
that this has got to be 200 bucks US
available at the hftcode.com
if you want to understand some of the
other concepts at a higher level
um meaning
presented like this try try this out
okay and as you learn it and have are
really motivated to use the right
sources the right sources which is
really AI um and just be able to spend I
don't know how long it would take to get
to a point of comfort to ace this stuff
okay um but this is how I do it if I was
at a firm okay and I could just have a
AI with a front end a a gentic AI it
could ask questions probably get it in a
point where it could ask questions of
what's happening in the day of that
interview if I really wanted to go crazy
and challenge people. So the idea here
between these three two things
is to help people not become and get
into quant trading at a firm which is
just what I'm showing you is now going
to be much much harder. And as I said
before you're going to be competing
against people that are getting laid off
in the industry and are about to get uh
laid off. We had somebody on our last
stream last week who was an insider
worked at an at an HFT firm market
making. He confirmed everything that I
talked about. Okay. Meaning that uh he
sees his job on the line as well. He
said that the FPGA coders are now trying
to use AI to make themselves productive
because the firms and managers know that
they can use AI to replace everybody. I
mean, I've just proven it. If you don't
believe me, keep keep smoking and
enjoying your pot. That's all I could
tell you. Anyways, but those are the two
solutions I would recommend. Okay?
There's nothing more to say about it.
But if you're using third-party websites
and paying for it, if you're paying
so-called career uh people and that may
have spently a year, there's a reason
why they don't stay in the field because
they can't. They don't know what they're
talking about. if they cannot present
the questions specifically around
trading systems or trading uh quant
trading research models math they don't
know what they're talking about they are
wasting their own time and more
importantly your time okay um because
it's not going to be enough okay these
are just very typical questions and this
is just from a a Chinese AI which may
not be the best the cheapest one again
where you're spending one penny per
query that this what you're seeing here
of over 800 lines cost me one penny
using qu uh quen and this is going to
get more and more advanced as something
like deepsek 4 comes out you got to get
with the times you're going to waste
your time any other way and only speak
to and use AI for your source material
okay nothing better than that doesn't
matter what the experience is just
laying it out there and you got your
options now. It's up to you. Over and
out. Thanks for watching.