Honestly, I hope my last video about
flock cloud connected AI cameras got you
thinking about your own situation at
home. Tens of millions of people have
browsed Amazon or have gone to a big box
store and bought a Ring, Nest or Arlo
camera and felt a wave of security wash
over them. Or maybe it was DLink, Yuthi,
Philips, Aquara, Zomi, Wise, Tapo,
Blink, or Amrest. There are really too
many to count. Regardless of the brand
though, it's so easy that it's almost
magical. You screw it into the wall,
scan a QR code, and suddenly you've got
a God view of your porch, driveway, or
nursery on your phone. Guess what? Some
of you have been viewed through your own
cameras by people you didn't grant
access to. You see, that convenience is
a Trojan horse. You think you're buying
a security system, but what you're
actually doing is inviting a tech
company to be your permanent, uninvited
roommate. one who keeps a copy of your
house keys and could theoretically sell
your habits to the highest bidder. These
companies all sell you on the cloud. It
sounds fluffy and safe, right? See this?
It's a t-shirt I had in the 2000s. And
in case you're just listening, the shirt
says that there is no cloud. It's just
someone else's computer. And it's true.
The cloud is just an internet accessible
server in a data center owned by
somebody else. In case you have some
ideas of how secure these things are and
how professionally your video data is
being handled, let me share this with
you. In 2023, Ring had to pay $5.8
million to the Federal Trade Commission
because, get this, employees and
contractors had unfettered access to
customer videos. We're talking about
people watching footage from inside
bedrooms and hallways for testing. Sure,
employees were fired years later for
unauthorized viewing, but I'd say that's
too little too late. Then there's the
Neighbors app, which created a digital
porch to police pipeline, allowing law
enforcement to view footage without a
warrant. It was like the Flock fourth
Amendment violation home edition. They
finally stopped warrantless access in
2024. It wasn't just that, though.
Hackers harassed users through the
camera's birectional audio. Ring was
bought by Amazon in 2018 for about a
billion dollars. Amazon, as of the date
I'm writing this, is worth nearly $2.1
trillion.
Presumably, if they had wanted to fix
this access and privacy nightmare at any
point, they could have. They just
didn't. I mentioned this in my Flock
video, but Ring, under public pressure,
just dissolved a partnership with Flock
Safety. Reportedly, the partnership was
intended to help find lost pets or
whatever, but we don't really know how
deep the integration was intended to be,
and we never will. Google's Nest is in a
bit of an awkward situation. They
unearthed critical video, which is
evidence in the Nancy Guthrie case.
What's the problem with that? Well, the
issue is that according to Nest data
retention policy, that footage should
not have been available anymore. To put
some more context around it, the data
was supposed to be deleted after 6
hours. The FBI recovered it 10 days
later. So, Google has video well past
when they're supposed to. How long do
they retain it? Do they keep it forever?
In case it wasn't obvious, the longer
these companies retain your video, the
more likely it will be accessed, copied,
or otherwise used against you. Amrest,
Zyomi, and Wise have had issues in the
past with customers seeing video feeds
from other people's cameras. Oops. The
last bit of data handling trivia is that
some Ring and Nest cameras don't even
have endto-end encryption, opening up
the possibilities for data interception.
The takeaway is that you should not have
a presumption of privacy or security. If
the main question is how secure your
data is, the real answer is you don't
know. And there's not a good way to find
out except maybe when the next lawsuit
settles.
And it's not just privacy, it's also
reliability. There are a lot of links in
this chain. the cameras, your internet
connectivity, the backend server
connectivity, the backend NVR, the
viewer endpoints, and the app. In
testing, we like to talk about the happy
path. In simple terms, everything is
good as long as everything is good.
However, if your internet goes out or if
Amazon servers have a bad Tuesday, your
security camera becomes a useless piece
of equipment. It stops recording. It's
one thing if you're using your cameras
to watch your dogs while you're at work,
but if you require high uptime, it's not
ideal to have a critical service that's
so brittle. This isn't a theoretical
problem. On the screen is an AWS outage
that took down Ring services for over 2
hours. That wasn't over 2 hours of not
being able to access your cameras. There
weren't any notifications, video
recordings, or anything else for that
period. You're paying a monthly
subscription fee for the privilege of
being vulnerable to service outage.
And let's talk about the cost. It's not
like you're getting an outdoor security
camera with the idea of not having it
for several years. Depending on the
brand and the model of the camera, you
will spend anywhere from $25 to over
$400 for each camera. Because these are
cloud offerings, you also have to pay a
monthly or annual fee. This is often per
camera, but some vendors like Ring,
Nest, and Blink have unlimited plans,
too. One camera can set you back between
20 and $100 a year. Inevitably though,
people who get one of these cameras will
generally get more. Three cameras will
cost between $60 and $300 a year with
several of the companies coming at $100
a year for their unlimited plans. Even
though these cameras are meant to feel
inexpensive, they're typically not,
especially in the long term. Something
to keep in mind is that these companies
can change their prices on the cameras
and the service plans at any point.
Since you're locked into their
ecosystem, there's really nothing you
can do about it.
And then there are the operational
quirks. Batterypowered Ring models often
have a re-trigger lockout period where
they won't record back-to-back events,
potentially missing an intruder. They're
also notorious for significant audio lag
and two-way talk. A byproduct of the
battery chemistry and battery powered
Nest Cams and doorbells is that they
cannot charge below freezing. Even if
hardwired, they may die in the winter
because the wires only trickle charge a
battery that is too cold to accept it.
Arlo users frequently report a 5 to 15
second delay between motion occurring
and receiving a phone alert, making
real-time interaction with a delivery
person nearly impossible. Most Blink
cameras rely on a proprietary sync
module. If this small box loses power or
Wi-Fi, every single camera on the system
goes offline instantly. Weiss cameras
have connection stability issues giving
frequent error code 90s or device
offline issues. Recent firmware updates
in 2025 and 2026 have caused some older
models to struggle with consistent live
view loading. Some Tapo cameras are
bricked during automatic firmware
updates, requiring a manual SD card
flash or a warranty claim to fix. Amrst
cameras are pretty good, but their
mobile app is often cited as buggy and
dated, frequently losing the save
credentials or failing to load high
resolution streams over cellular data.
Phillips is dependent on hubbridge with
an architecture that's similar to blink.
If your hub bridge experiences a glitch,
your security cameras and lights may
stop communicating, leaving you with no
detections.
Zomi and Accara users in the US or EU
sometimes experience choppy video or
timeouts when trying to access playback
from the cloud due to a lack of server
localization. Of course, nothing is
perfect. The reason I'm picking on these
companies and their products is just to
remind you that you're buying into a
specific product ecosystem. If you buy a
camera from one of these companies,
you're likely to buy future cameras from
them as well, effectively locking you
into the quirks and pitfalls of the
company and their products. Plus,
there's no guarantee that the platform
will continue to perform consistently
over time.
So, what you might be thinking, who
cares if I'm locked in? Especially for
more expensive cameras, you may be
looking to advertise the purchase cost
over the service life of the camera.
After all, these cameras could
theoretically function for a decade or
more. The problem is that companies
aren't looking at these things like
their long-term products that they need
to support. Perhaps it isn't explicitly
planned obsolescence, but some of these
companies are just shutting off products
when they feel like they're sufficiently
old, insecure, or both. Google did this
with Nest Drop Cams. Amazon did it with
cloud cams. DLink has done it, as have
tons of other lesser manufacturers
overseas.
My opinion is that it doesn't matter how
cheap your camera is if you only get to
use it a few years. And in case I'm not
being clear enough, the economics of
these cameras are awful. You're buying
something that's tethered to a system
that you don't own or control, and your
camera can't work without it. In the
event that your camera works forever,
you pay forever and you're effectively
locked into a product line that may not
have cameras with the cost profile,
performance, or features you want.
Unless you're new to the channel, you
already know where this is going. Why
delegate something critical to a third
party when you can self-host? If you
want to reclaim your privacy without
losing the tech, you need to learn a
five-letter acronym, ENVIF. ONVIF or
open network video interface form is an
18-year-old specification started by a
few companies that designed,
manufactured, and sold security cameras.
The idea was to have a standard that
allowed cameras and the equipment that
works with them to be universally
interoperable. The standard has grown
over the years and includes support for
tons of products outside of the original
concept, including access control
hardware. When you buy an ONVIF
compliant camera, you aren't locked into
a specific app or manufacturer. you own
the hardware. You find these from brands
like Rail Link, Amcrust, Axis, Hike
Vision, Amp Viz, and tons of no-name
brands. The price range is where it gets
really interesting because the cameras
can start as low as $15. They're not
great, but they work. You can get a
solid 4K on camera for $50 to $100. If
you want the fancy stuff like 25x
optical zoom or thermal imaging, you can
spend as much as you want. But for a
driveway, $80 gets you better image
quality than the most expensive
subscription doorbells. The great part
is that you can buy whatever level of
capability that you need. You can mix
and match to your heart's desire. I, for
example, have some super cheap and super
sus cameras in my setup that cost about
$30 a piece. I also have some nice pan,
tilt, and zoom cameras that are quite a
bit more expensive. And the best part is
that I don't really need to worry about
how compromised the super cheap cameras
are. And the reason is that unless your
router is a potato, you can prevent even
the sketchiest cameras from calling home
or other undesired activities. I not
only block mine from the internet, but I
also keep them on a separate VLAN from
my trusted network devices. And on the
subject of special cameras, I can
already hear you saying, "But Dad, I
have a doorbell camera." Well, good
news. You can replace that Ring doorbell
with an ONVIF capable one. Look at the
Rail Link video doorbell or the Amrest
AD410. They look just as sleek. They
have the same two-way audio, but they
also have local micro SD slots. And more
importantly, they can talk to your
server, not Jeff Bezos's.
I have a Flood Light camera. Well, check
this out.
Not only can you find ONVIF equivalents
to pretty much any cloud camera, you can
find all kinds of other stuff, too. like
this
or this.
If you're not using someone else's
server, you're going to need your own.
The term server may sound expensive, but
it's possible that many of you already
have old, unused hardware that you can
repurpose, or you may have some newer
hardware that you could also add video
recording to. For many, a used PC makes
the most sense, but it's generally
cheapish. Then there's the cost of the
network video recording or NVR software.
There are commercial applications like
Blue Iris, but at this point I favor
Friget, which is free. Aside from
handling the camera's feeds, it can also
use AI to detect people, cars, and even
dogs locally on your own hardware. There
are other free alternatives to Frigot
like I Spy, Shinobi, and Zone Minder.
You can set up the cameras via an app or
a web interface, and then you can attach
them to the NVR. You secure the cameras
via VLAN and/or firewall rules. You set
up notification rules, recording
schedules, object detection, and
anything else you want in the NVR. You
set up notification rules, recording
schedules, object detection, or anything
else you want in the NVR. Then you set
up mobile viewing with my preference
being to do it through Home Assistant.
To top it all off, you set up tail scale
so you can view your system from
anywhere. Unlike some of my other
tutorials where you at the mercy of your
router's capabilities, everything
required for this is completely under
your control. Here's how the cost stacks
up in a few different scenarios.
Especially if you have to buy some
hardware, I can see where you might be
wincing at the year 1 cost. That said,
the economics of ownership clobber the
economics of leasing over time. Plus,
reclaiming your privacy should be worth
something, right? If you want to see how
cheap and easy it is to set up Proxmox,
install forget, set up some cameras, and
make it all work on the go, let me know
in the comments that you want that
video. What is it they say? If you can
dodge a wrench, you can set up an NDVR
or something like that. Convenience is
great, but security shouldn't require a
subscription or a privacy sacrifice. The
fact that you don't know if your
recordings are actually private should
be a dealbreaker for most. By switching
to local ONVIF cameras and a setup like
Frigot, you aren't just protecting your
porch, you're protecting your data. If
you found this video interesting or
helpful, hit like, subscribe, and share
this with anyone else that you think is
ready to stop being a user and is ready
to become an owner. If you want to
support my work, please hype the video
and consider becoming a member. I'm not
a big deal, so it's really cheap.
Depending on the tier, we can hang out
on Discord, so there's that. And while I
hate to ask for money, these videos take
a surprising amount of time. So, if you
want to toss something in my tip jar, I
won't stop you. And speaking of members,
I want to thank new members on the
screen for their support. Have a great
day. Stay private. Stay secure. And stop
letting the cloud watch you sleep.