So, this is Zeus, my $8,500 supercomput.
And right now, it's generating me over
$48,000 a month and growing quickly.
See, while everyone's out there buying
Mac minis and paying hundreds a month
for cloud servers, the founders who are
going to dominate in 2026 and definitely
beyond need to build machines like this.
And I'm talking about running your
entire business infrastructure. Email
verification, AI models, automation
hosting, millions of rows and lead
databases, all hosted on a single
machine, sitting in your office with no
monthly expenses. Now, by the end of
this video, you're going to be ordering
parts on Amazon, sitting there waiting
for them to arrive like a kid on
Christmas. Now, let me tell you how I
got here. About two years ago, I was
running pretty much everything on cloud
servers, Digital Ocean droplets, AWS,
and it worked pretty well for a while.
Was running NET on there, hosting my
websites on there. But then we started
scaling, and AI got a whole lot more
useful. I went from verifying, you know,
a few thousand emails a day to now we're
verifying hundreds of thousands of
emails per day. I went from running two
or three NADN instances with a few
different automations on them to now
we're running tens of N8 instances with
my main ones doing millions of
executions per month. And every time I
scaled, my cloud costs went up every
single month. At one point, I remember
paying $1,200 in a single month just to
host my website. Now, some of you are
probably thinking, just get a Mac Mini
or a Mac Studio. After all, those videos
have millions of views. But here's the
thing that most people don't think
about. Even a Mac Mini M4 Pro, you get
24 gigs of RAM, 100 gigs of storage for
1,500 bucks. And that's great for
personal use. It's great for
development. It's great for running your
Cloudbot. But when you're running an
entire enterprise level software, you're
verifying hundreds of thousands of
emails per day. You're using NADN
[music] to execute autonomously
throughout the day to do really heavy
lifts. You're running it for clients.
You're running it for colleagues. or
you're hosting your own robust software
with millions of data points that it has
to go through and you want to save money
on AI costs. Maybe you're paying OpenAI
or Anthropic tons of money every month
and you want to run your own AI locally.
You need different hardware. There's not
a Mac model in the world that can match
what Zeus, my supercomput, does. And
stitching together systems just adds
complexity. You want a system that's all
integrated into one that you can upgrade
as needed. So, here's why you need to do
what I did. You need to build a single
machine, a single operating system, one
network configuration, 128 gigs of RAM,
14 terabytes of storage, 16 cores, 32
threads, and everything in one place.
So, here I'm going to show you exactly
what Zeus is running right now because
this isn't theoretical. This machine is
generating revenue for me 24 hours a
day, 7 days a week. And I'm going to
show you exactly how to build it and the
real use cases that you're going to hear
and be like, "Holy poop, if I were to
have this in my business, what would
that unlock? How could I make money with
this thing? How much money could I save
with this thing?" You're going to learn
all of that right here in this video.
Now, if you're new to the channel, my
name is Le Jen J. I run the biggest
[music] community online for B2B lead
generation and AI automation. And
between my companies, we have over a 100
employees and we do well over 10 million
a year. Now, let's talk about Zeus.
probably the most valuable thing that
Zeus, my supercomputer, does is running
open-source software. So, what is
open-source software? I had no idea
about because I'm not that technical.
I'm not a developer. I was introduced to
this world by my colleague Michael,
who's been building systems with me for
over a year now. He's been building
computers since he was a kid. He's the
one who actually put me on to this idea.
He came over, helped me order the parts,
helped me assemble this thing and get it
working. I had no idea that a lot of the
applications that you probably pay for,
I'm talking about Google map scrapers,
email verification tools, there's
open-source versions of all of these
things. And if you learned about what
else you could just download and start
running without having to pay for it,
your mind would be blown. In fact, you
could just go on the Docker marketplace
right now and see what other open-source
tools are out there that you can just
download and start using without paying.
I'm talking about a bunch of different
AI models. Crunchbased scrapers, YouTube
scrapers. There's scrapers for just
about everything and open source tools
for just about everything. If you use
Versell like I do to bring your Claude
code applications to life and to the
internet, you don't need to pay them.
Kulio is a replacement for Versell. So,
whatever's in your current tech stack
softwares that you're paying for,
there's probably a pretty good
open-source version for it. And you can
run all of those things on your home
server and you can use cloud code,
install it on your home server and now
you can configure the entire thing, have
it access that server, download
applications, launch applications. It's
absolutely incredible. So let me just
kind of share this is the the back end
of Zeus. Now it's not pretty like an
Apple computer, but I'm going to show
you around a little bit. We've got all
of these applications in the middle.
These are Docker containers. These are
these open- source applications that are
running. Whole bunch of different
WordPress sites, NADN instances, and
things that you probably haven't heard
of before, but are basically free
applications, free software that you can
download and run. Coolify, GMAP
scrapers, lots of different unbelievable
things on here. And we're running this
on something called Unrade, which is
something that you load on to your
server. And this is like your user
interface. This is your like Mac OS, but
for the server. Now, the great thing is
you're never going to actually be logged
into this. My server right now is
sitting in my living room right now
plugged into a surge protector with no
monitor, no keyboard, nothing. It just
runs 247. And if I ever want to access
it, I just do it in my browser. I just
connect to Zeus.local and because I'm on
the same network, I can just remote into
Zeus anytime. Uh I can also SSH into
Zeus. So if I ever want to access it
from say cla code, I can just tell
Claude to SSH into Zeus and control it,
do whatever I want in there. My
Claudebot is also connected to Zeus. So,
if I tell Bob, hey, go into Zeus and do
this, it will do it without me asking.
Now, it's got a ton of power and I can
assign different power to different
apps, different Dockers, and just take a
look at this. If I want to come and uh
add new applications, I can just come
into apps. There's an app store where
you can download things and see what's
available, what's open source. And if
you're ever wondering, cuz this isn't
that pretty, literally just download
Cloudbot or install Cloud Code on this
thing and ask it to do research [music]
and download it for you. It will
configure it. It will get it working.
The reason this was so inaccessible
before is cuz it's ugly. It's hard to
use. This isn't Mac. So, if you are
non-technical like me and you want to
build something like this, now is the
best time because you don't need to be
technical. You have cloud code. It'll do
everything for you. Now let me just show
you some examples of applications that
we have running on Zeus right now that
are making me tons of money. Let me show
you this. So this is my NAD instance.
Now the NADN also running on Zeus. It's
running a ton of executions every day.
Really heavy powerful executions. So
let's come into my Google map scraper.
Now this is being coordinated
orchestrated as you can see here by
Naden. So every 15 minutes I think it
runs this orchestrator. And check this
out. Yeah, it's running right now. Takes
about 3 to four minutes per run. And
this is running on Zeus. So, it's
checking if it's already running. But
here, start scrape job. It's connecting
directly to Zeus's IP address, starting
the scraper on Zeus, and then checks if
it's done, grabs the scrape results, and
adds them into Zeus's Postgress. This is
running non-stop for free. I've got a
free Google Maps scraper running 24/7,
scraping all of the Google Maps data.
this step here. After we've scraped all
of Google Maps, we have to find the
owner of that Google Maps company. If I
were to do this and pay Open AI to to
run each record through AI to get
results, that's that's like 15 million
local businesses. It would cost me a
fortune. We've got AI models, O Lama
running directly on Zeus. So, because I
host my own AI models now, I can do AI
image generation, AI image analysis, I
can do uh text AI, and I'm it's it's all
running locally on that system, and it
is unbelievably good. Usually, it's the
version right before OpenAI's uh now on
like 5.3 or something like that. A lot
of times they're like 5.0 is going to be
available open source. So, you can
download this and never have to pay AI
companies again for really simple stuff.
A lot of it is is now running on Zeus.
So I don't have to spend money there
anymore. Consulty AI, we have an email
verification system running on Zeus. So
we installed an open- source tool called
Reacher. And now every twice a day, this
automation is going to run and it's
going to verify hundreds of thousands of
email addresses in Zeus. I think this
one did 200,000 emails in this run. Just
absolutely incredible. Super heavy
automations, super powerful. And all of
that verification, all of that computing
[music] power is only possible because
this reacher API is open- source and
downloaded in Zeus. If I were to pay for
this, if I were to pay million verifier
or another company for this, it would
cost me thousands of dollars a day just
to run this thing. So these are just
some examples of how we're using Zeus to
to make tons of money. And just to show
you, here are some of the Docker
containers that are running. And you'll
see Koolifi, this is the replacement for
Versel. Here's the Google map scraper.
Here's my AI uh local model. Open web.
Actually, I think I can actually come in
here and access the web version of it,
too. So, let's see. Web UI. Yeah, here
we go. Sign into the web UI. I never use
it like this. Uh I'm always API
requesting in it, but I can access it on
the web, too. Just like you talk to chat
GPT, although you probably never need
to. I've got instantly Oh, cold email
automations in here. I've got lots of
different WordPress sites in here. I've
got lots of different scrapers in here.
Postgress database, these are the ones
that can hold millions of leads. And
because of how powerful this system is,
it's fast. It's lightning fast. So, if
you were to try and do any of this stuff
with a virtual server, it would just
crash with the level of compute power
that's required for some of these
things. Now, by the way, guys, if you
want to learn how I set up some of this
stuff, how I built my own email
verification server, installed it, I
actually have a video that I did
recently on it. Uh, I don't even
gatekeep that information. It's totally
free. It's going to be on the screen or
down in the description somewhere so
that you can learn how I set up Reacher
and built my own free email verification
system. Now, why this is so exciting now
and probably the reason that you're
already the most excited is the local AI
models. We're running Olama plus open
web UI on Zeus and I kind of just showed
you that but that gives me and my team a
completely free chat GPT claw
alternative and it can run Deepseek
Llama Mistral lots of different really
powerful models with zero subscriptions
and no API costs and if you're worried
about security now you're not sharing
data with other networks with OpenAI
it's all contained in your server and
with 128 gigs of RAM which we have on
Zeus and 16 cores these models run
insanely fast. Now, am I saying that you
can just build the server and you don't
need Claude or Chat GBT anymore? No. For
cutting edge high reasoning tasks, you
still want the the best models. I'm not
building full apps using O Lama. I'm
using Cloud Code and I pay them a lot of
money for it. However, 80% of my daily
AI tasks that are running in N8 really
don't need the latest and greatest
model. the ones that are summarizing
things or doing some cold email
personalization. Do you really need Opus
4.6 for that? Not really. You can use
the local models and never have to pay
those AI costs. I was literally paying
probably $800 to $1,500 per month across
all the different AI models. Once I
implemented this, it cut my cost like
80%. So, what about NADM? A lot of times
you're doing some pretty heavy
automations. At least I know I was. And
I was paying this virtual server. I kept
upgrading and upgrading and upgrading
because it was getting slower and slower
the more automations I built and the
more workflows and executions that it
was doing. Eventually, I transitioned
everything in it to Zeus and I gave it
all of the power that it could possibly
handle and I actually asked Cloud Code
to speed up my Anodan in every way
possible and it did. It auto updates
every every day with the latest models.
It backs it up every day all from Zeus.
And as part of my high ticket AI
automation offer, we actually run NAND
for our clients. So it actually helps me
make money getting people onto my high
ticket offer because I'm able to offer
that unbelievable additional service.
Now, I'm sure all of this is sounding
really impressive, but we really were
just scratching the surface. We're
running a Have you seen built with the
things that scrape different websites
and see what tech stacks they're using?
We're running an open- source version of
that. We're running an opensource cyber
security audit system that will do uh
penetration testing on your website so
that we can have an unbelievable lead
magnet for our cyber security clients.
Literally, I I can't even stress this
enough. You'll be shocked at what is
open source and what you can run and
turn into an offer or turn into a SAS
product. Now, another really cool use
case for Zeus, I don't know how many of
you pay extra storage for Google Drive
or for Dropbox, but Zeus has tens of
terabytes of hard drive space. And you
can literally just add more space by
sliding in a disc. It's not like a Mac
where you have to change your whole Mac
to get more hard drive space. All of my
storage space is on Zeus and it's
accessible from anywhere in the house.
If you're used to uploading content to
Dropbox or to Google Drive or some other
cloud service provider, I don't need any
of that anymore. Anytime I want to
access Zeus or upload things to Zeus, I
can access it from anywhere in my home
network. Let me show you how how easy
this is. So, this is my finder window.
If I come into my network, here's Zeus.
He's accessible anywhere. Data, this is
all folders that I can access from any
computer in my house. All of it is
stored on Zeus. And if I want to put a
video in there, if I want to put an
entire application on there, this GitHub
folder, this is where I store all of my
applications. It's a lot, it's a lot of
space and I can access them anytime. No
more cloud. Literally, no more cloud. No
more cloud cost. Dropbox, Google Drive.
All of the files gets backed up to Zeus.
You drag it in there and it's way faster
than it would be uploading it to a
Google Drive or a Dropbox. And probably
worth mentioning as somebody who has
lots of businesses and I've been
collecting websites over the years, you
end up paying like WordPress and all of
these different cloud providers, you
know, 50 to 100 bucks a month to host
your websites. None of that anymore. You
host WordPress on your server. You have
Coolify on your server to host your
applications. And now you have no more
hosting costs, full control. You have
your Cloudbot and your Cloud Code to
help configure everything, make sure
it's all working correctly, and then you
never have to worry again. But let me
talk about why this matters so much
beyond just what I showed you and what
I'm doing today. Because the real
argument for building your own server
isn't just about saving money on cloud
cost. It's about preparing for the
future and getting ready for a world
where AI dominates everything. AI models
are getting bigger. They're getting more
powerful, more capable. And the trend is
clearly moving towards local inference.
Every major company, Apple, Meta,
Google, they're all pushing to run
models on their hardware. Why? It's
faster. It's private. And it's cheaper
at scale. See, right now, I can run 70
billion parameter models on Zeus. A year
from now, the models that are
state-of-the-art today are all going to
be running on hardware like this. 2
years from now, you're going to need
local compute just to keep up with what
everybody else is doing. You won't run
the latest open-source models on some
VPS with 8 gigs of RAM. You're not going
to be able to run them on a Mac Mini
with 24 gigs. You need serious hardware.
And if you want to do things at scale
like I'm doing, like scraping all of
Google Maps or scraping every podcaster
and enriching all of it, then there's
really only one way to do it, and that's
building your own athome supercomput.
Now, the fun part. I'm going to show you
exactly what to build, what to install,
and how to put it all together. So, I
have to thank Michael for helping me
with this product list, but I've got a
nice Amazon storefront with everything
that I bought that goes into Zeus. It's
going to be for free down below. Just go
ahead and click to access this Amazon
storefront link. This is literally
imported from my orders. Uh, and if you
total the price, it should add up to
around 850 or 8,500. Now, there's some
things on here that may have changed in
price or might not be available. So, you
might just need to find some
alternatives. The most important and
expensive piece, as expected, is this
Nvidia GPU. Uh, I think they've gotten
more expensive. As you can see, I
actually purchased this thing. Um, but
you you will need this to run the latest
AI models. So, I I would really
emphasize don't cheap out on this cuz if
you cheap out, you're not going to get
the product that you need. So, this is
going to be your parts list. Now, I also
put together a installation guide on
exactly how to set it all up. And this
is going to have like images and guides
on how to put every piece together as
well. So, make sure that you check this
out. It's going to be in the
description. Now, just kind of running
through what's on Zeus. We've got the
CPU. This is the AMD Ryzen 9. This is
what's going to give you all of the
cores. We've got 128 gigs of RAM in
here. We've got 14 terabytes of storage.
We've got this Nvidia GPU, the 5090.
This is one of the latest models. And
putting it together does become a little
bit complicated, especially if you're
doing it yourself and for the first
time. So, uh, I definitely emphasize
that you want to go here and download
this parts list and the step-by-step
instructions on how to put it all
together. Now, if you were to buy a
pre-built server, cuz that's your
alternative, right? instead of like a
Mac studio. What if you were to just get
like someone to pre-build this for you
and customize it for you? If you're
really rich, you can think about doing
that. I wanted the challenge and I
wanted to do this with Michael who's
been building these for a long time on
my team, but you might be able to find
one of these like pre-built for you that
has all of the specs that you're going
to need. You're probably going to end up
paying around $20,000 for something of
this power that's pre-built. Uh, but it
was a lot of fun building it yourself
and trying to get it online. Uh, so I
definitely recommend trying this. I
think it's going to be a really cool
skill and something that you have for
the rest of your life and it's something
that you built. So once it's running,
it's like, "Oh my god, I put all these
pieces together and it's actually
working." And it actually wasn't that
hard to do. It took less than a day. Uh
it was kind of like solving a puzzle and
it was a lot of fun. Now, here's what I
want you to do next. I put together the
Amazon storefront with the exact parts
that I used to build Zeus. Same CPU,
same RAM, same drive, same case,
everything. It will work. The link is in
the description. You can literally order
the same build today. Uh, second, uh,
you're going to want the step-by-step
guide on how to put this all together.
So, all of the applications that you're
going to need, all of the assemblies,
make sure that you grab that guide as
well. It's going to be in the
description. And I am going to work on
putting together like a step-by-step
video module on how to assemble and set
up your own Zeus. And don't call it
Zeus, that's my name. So, make sure to
join the AI Automation Insiders to
always get the latest on stuff like
that. Uh, and as well as the other
cutting edge stuff that I'm doing that I
don't put on YouTube. And believe me,
there's plenty of it. Inside of that
community, we've got over 3,000 members.
Now, you can join it for free right now,
too. It's going to be down in the
description. It's a school community, AI
Automation Insiders, done for you NADN
templates, Claude Code workflows.
Definitely recommend joining. It is the
place to be to be on the cutting edge of
AI automation, cloud code, and doing
stuff like this. Now, I do want to hear
from you. Drop a comment. Let me know.
Is this helpful? Are you planning on
building your own supercomput? Have you
already done it? Maybe I made a mistake
or you did something better. I'd love to
know about it. Drop a comment. Let me
know. Let me know what you're running on
yours. Let me know what you want to
install. Maybe it's something I didn't
didn't even mention and I want to know
about. Let me know in the comments. I
read everyone and I will tell you if uh
your use case makes sense and we can
talk about it and have some fun. Now, if
you haven't already seen my video on
setting up your own email verification
server with Reacher for free. It's
probably the next best thing you should
watch. It goes handinhand with this. So,
make sure to click somewhere on this
video to watch it and join the AIA
insiders down below. Hit subscribe if
this was helpful. Hit the like button if
you if you like what you see.