If you drank the Kool-Aid recently, you
might have spent $10,000 on a Mac Studio
that you're never going to use ever
again in your life. How stupid can you
be? Wait, I did that. Hold on. Yeah. So,
I made all these mistakes for you on
this channel. I do the testing. I do the
experimenting just so you guys don't
have to do that. I bought previously a
$4,000 Mac Studio and then I bought a
$3,000 Mac Mini and I returned both of
them. I have no shame to admit that. On
this channel, we're open with failures.
I've always been in my entire life and
we're not going to stop now. So finally
after about a month and 100 plus hours
of messing around with OpenClaw, I
finally have what I think is the most
effective, productive, strongest way to
be running OpenClaw. And I'm going to
talk about in this short video just to
make sure that you guys don't waste
money and you don't make the same
mistakes I did. So this was a very
costly video. Let me put that out there.
The mistakes that I made and the cost
that it cost me was $4,000 for that Mac
Studio, $2,000 for a Mac Mini. I did buy
a previous Mac Mini as well, and then I
had a gaming PC that cost like $1,100.
This was a $10,000 video. So, if you
learn anything from this video, please
subscribe because I'm running out of
money here and it's really not cool and
uh my wife isn't believing in the goal
and she's not seeing the vision anymore
cuz I'm just losing money. It's not
really fun anymore. No, but for real,
let's talk about this. So, I returned
all of these different things and I
stopped using all these random different
models that I was using before because I
just truly believe that unless you're
doing something absolutely insane that
does require that level of hardware, you
do not need an expensive local model.
For those of you that don't know, a
local LLM is why people are buying all
of these expensive hardware and $10,000
Mac Studios and stuff like that. And I'm
not a hater. More power to you. I'm
happy for you. This channel will never
hate on people using their money for the
way that they want to use their money.
If you want to go experiment, go do
that. That's why I bought it. Apple has
a week grace period so that whatever you
buy, if you return it within a week, you
can get a full refund. That's what I
did. I didn't even know that existed.
So, you're welcome. Now you know that
exists. Go buy that $10,000 Mac Studio.
Test it for four days. If you don't like
it, just return it. But like I was
saying, they buy this expensive hardware
so that you can run like a 512
1,7B
parameter AI local model and it's free
and it runs 24/7 and it builds you a
company and you're going to be a
trillionaire. Not really. Don't feel the
FOMO and do not spend your money unless
you want to on these things because the
main advantage that you get is that yes,
it's free. That's amazing. You don't
need to pay the subscription cost. You
don't need to pay API fees. Number two,
it is 247. If it's running on your local
model, it can do stuff all the time. And
since it's free, it won't cost you
anything but the electricity and of
course the hardware price to run it. And
number three, it is private. So I don't
know what these guys are doing that they
needed to be private. I don't care.
Netanyahu has my information. He's Ben
had my information. He has my DNA at
this point. But if you do care about
privacy, then this is for you. So those
three things matter, then that's fine.
Don't worry about it. But if it doesn't
for like the large majority of people,
then you're going to want to pay
attention. What I found to be the most
effective model is this two cheapest Mac
minis possible. Not even two, just one.
You don't even need an actual physical
device. I just think it's cool that I
can look over and they're there and I
can do stuff with them and I think it's
fun. But get one for $600. If you have
the student discount, you can get $100
off. I'm pretty sure if you go to
MicroEnter, you can get it for $400. Get
the cheapest one and just buy a banger
subscription to go with it. If you spend
$2,000 on a Mac Mini or, god forbid,
$5,000 on a Mac Studio, you will still
be spending less because even if you
spend, like I do, $200 a month for the
Claude Max subscription, you have years
until you hit that point. And you can
always just cancel it if you're not
using it, or you can always just use it
for other stuff. But if you buy that
$10,000 Mac Studio, even if you put it
on that 12-month payment plan with the
Apple Card, you need to spend $10,000.
You better get your money back out of
that somehow or just, you know, have
enough fun with it for it to make sense.
I think the CloudMax subscription for
$200 or Kimmy K which is like really
good for coding or another Chinese model
that you can run like Miniax or even if
you're running OpenAI if you're running
anything else the subscriptionbased
model is so much better than running
these big fat Mac studios and having to
deal with the open this and open that
because the benefits you get from
running a local LLM is not really that
good for the majority of people. I think
Opus 4.6 six again, strongest model,
smartest, best inference, whatever is so
good, it doesn't make sense to be
running other worse models, especially
if you need to buy an entire big fat Mac
studio to do that. I ran Quen and then I
ran O Lama and I didn't have enough
storage to run all the better models
like Kimmy K and stuff, but they suck.
They're so slow and they're so dumb that
I even tweeted about it. My number one
open claw running the claw to Opus 4.6 6
was so much smarter that it would yell
at my other Open claw. You know how
crazy that is? Like downgrading from
Opus 4.6 to any other model is just like
you can see it. It's a night and day
difference and it sucks. So don't do
that to yourself once you're used to
butter chicken. Oh god, that's such an
Indian thing of me to say. Once you're
used to eating chicken, once you're used
to eating butter chicken your whole
life, why the hell would you want to
downgrade to prawn? Butter butter prawn.
Like why would you go to Seafood from
Chicken? You know what I mean? Like are
you stupid? So that's one thing I really
really noticed and you will notice it in
your day-to-day. Like you can tag Andre
that's running a stupider model and
he'll be like what? What is that? I
don't have this. What's that? What is
that? It'll take 20 minutes to respond.
You'll hear your Mac Studio, your Mac
Mini heat up and start running and dying
and in that time Opus 4.6 has ran 10
different commands and is even yelling
at your other agent to like lock in and
it doesn't do that. So that being said,
there's a clear difference in what's
available to most people for these
models. But again, if you want to spend
10K and get the smartest, greatest
model, you can do that. Don't worry
about that. That's your money. Do what
you want. But I just don't think it's
worth it. I think it's so much smarter
to run the subscription on whatever
model that you want. Spend $10 to $200 a
month on it, and you'll end up spending
so much less even with the cost of the
Mac Mini, which is like $600. And in my
own experience right now, as you can
see, I'm running two. And again, I'm not
bullshitting. I'm actually doing stuff.
This is an app that I'm spinning into
the iOS store, like I mentioned before,
my Twitter. This is an app that I'm
working that does security cameras. As
you can see here, my green tank is
getting fixed up. Don't worry about it.
This app actually helped me with that.
This is a YouTube channel that I'm
running that these guys do themselves. I
do nothing with it. They post lowfi
hour-long videos, like background ASMR
videos. And my charity, I run two
charities. They run with ideas and
content ideas, and they do research in
Nigeria and Indonesia on what they can
be doing to make it better. They
actually do stuff. But because of that,
I can tell you from experience whether
or not you need to be doing this or that
if you care about this or that. So
ultimately, I truly believe majority of
people, if you want to have fun with the
Mac Studio and you want to run a local
model, watch this video. I did that
thing. I did it for you guys. And unless
you really care about those three things
like privacy and running it on your own
device and 24/7 and free and stuff, it
doesn't matter. Like, you're not going
to care. It's not going to be like the
make or break for you. If you want to
have fun with it, go ahead, try it. Just
return it because they have a week
window. Just letting you know. But I
don't think you need it. A lot of people
are like scared and adverse to buy that
expensive $200 a month clawed code
thing. But I'm telling you, it's so
good. I've never hit my limit on it.
It's so much smarter than any other like
the five or to 10 models that I've
tested. It's so fast. Like everything
that you want it to do, it can do.
There's never anything it's like, "Oh,
what the hell? What are you talking
about?" Every now and then the Open
Cloud will have a memory problem, but
then I'm just like, "Hey, check your MD
file." And it checks it and it's so much
better. So that's what I would
recommend. If you hit the limit,
increase your limit. And if you really
want to test other models, just buy them
for one month and test it. buy it for
one week and test it and you can see
what I'm talking about and you can see
that is actually true. Okay, so again,
this video cost me $8,000 to make. I did
get it all back. So, don't worry. But,
uh, yeah, I made a lot of mistakes, over
100 hours doing stuff with OpenCloud in
the past like month. I finally found a
system that works and I want people to
know because a lot of people are still
installing their OpenCloud, learning how
to use it. So, go watch all the other
videos I've made because I spent hours
making them. And if you appreciated this
video or any other videos, please sub.
I'm trying to get to 50,000 subs by the
end of this year. I only have 1,500, so
we're not close at all. And over the
next like months and years, I'm going to
be keep posting videos and stuff about
Open Cloud. So if you're interested in
anything with AI, anything with crypto,
new tech, whatever it is, this is the
channel for that.