As far as I know, nobody in the real
estate industry has spent more time on
Open Claw and trying to make Open Claw
work for realtors than I have. This was
a painful, exhausting process, but we
learned a ton in the process. And I
think we finally broke through. And I
think that is most easily evidenced by
the fact that I've been retweeted three
times by Peter Steinberger, the guy who
created Open Claw. And I genuinely
believe that real estate stands to
benefit more than almost any other
industry from a technology like this.
And I'm going to talk a little bit about
why. If you are seeing this open cloth
stuff and you're just like, "This is way
too much for me. I just want it all put
into a package and sold to me. I want I
want the tool. I want the life-changing
experience of it, but I don't want to go
through the whole pain of creating it
like you just mentioned. I got you. The
link's in the description.
meetyouhomeies.com.
Check it out. If you're doing this job
properly, you know, if you're a realtor
who's busy, you will be out of the
office. You'll be in your car. You'll be
at showings. You'll be on listing
appointments. You'll be at inspections.
You're not sitting in front of your CRM.
You're not sitting in your email. Real
estate is a field job with a desk back
end. Even though a lot of the magic
happens in the CRM, in the email, and a
lot of real estate professionals
struggle because they can't get the
economics of hiring someone to work to
alleviate a lot of that administrative
burden. And the the friction is exactly
what AI operating systems solve. And I
know I've been talking a lot about AI
and jobs on this channel, especially
real estate, because I think
transparency matters a lot. And
consumers deserve to know how technology
is simplifying this industry so that
they'll later see it, improve outcomes
for them, most notably in fee
compression in an industry that's been
consistently
heralded as overpaid. But realtors
deserve to benefit from these
technologies, too. So about a month ago,
like right when OpenClaw first started
going viral, like when it was originally
called Claudebot, I saw it and I was
like, "This sounds too good to be true."
But I just dove right into it. And since
then, and I think timing was kind of
like fortunate. I had just had a newborn
and I was like locked in the house
anyway. And you know, I was just like
kind of semi pat leave just like at a
computer tinkering, right, with a with a
baby there. And since then, I've built
and open-sourced dozens of skills on
Claw Hub. You can download them all for
free. I'll link them in the description
below. I've recorded thousands of hours
inside a school group called AI and Open
Claw for Realtors. I've documented every
mistake, every iteration. Like I
actually like we started this thing as
just AI for realtors and and like I was
getting fired up about like automating
stuff back when it was like claude code
plugins and like so we have claude code
claud and chrome like literally how to
do um a bunch of stuff in claude co-work
like booking showings on like bro bro
bro bro bro bro bro bro bro bro bro bro
bro bro bro bro bro bro bro bro brok
broker bay like how to get it to to do
that
um and that that really um expanded into
using like into into growing openclaw.
So, we built like all of the different
missions, uh, offer drafter,
um, how to build an open claw from
scratch, um, basically how to create it
as a AI real est real real estate
assistant, what are all of the different
SOPs, cuz one of the keys here is that
you actually have to create like um,
your standing standard operating
procedures to coach it through all of
these different tasks. We've taken all
of that and made it free for you to just
learn how to do it on your own. But most
people still decide they don't want to
do it on their own cuz it is a ton of
work. And you most people in the real
estate profession, they say, "I believe
you. I just want the benefit. Give me
the benefit. Sell me the benefit. I'm
willing to pay a lot of money for the
benefit." And so that's what we did.
That's why we created Homie. Homie
basically takes everything that I've
learned from running real estate
brokerage, being a real estate
professional, all the jobs that we need
automated away that can't be done or
that that can be done by AI. There's a
lot of stuff that can't be. and we built
Homie and we basically started a wait
list. We're going to just launch a
hundred of these things at the end of
April. And the reason we're just doing a
hundred at first is because it's going
to be a lot of work to get them on the
rails, to get people on boarded, etc.
So, if you want to join the wait list
for that, click the link, the first link
in the description, and you can get an
out of the box ready to go Open Claw on
your CRM with its own email, its own
phone number, ready to do whatever you
needed to do in your real estate
business. You as a real estate
professional can DIY an OpenClaw. My
OpenClaw now does. It manages my CRM. It
builds a lot of my content. It builds
all of my funnels. It does all of my
many chat automations. It sets calls for
me from the CRM. It does home
evaluations. It drafts listing
presentations. It builds marketing plans
for listings. It executes marketing
plans for listings by doing voicemail
drops, sending um just listed flyers,
doing just listed phone calls, openhouse
invitations. It manages showings and
feedback. It books showings and
schedules them into my calendar and
notifies my clients. And when paperwork
comes in, it manages the signbacks. It
manages project manages the paperwork
through it. It cuts the PDFs into the
corresponding separate separated
documents so they can go into our filing
system for deal processing. It's
actually insane how much work that this
thing can do. I've figured out how to
integrate it with pretty much every CRM
that is available in the real estate
space. Go high level is where I started
because that's what I use. But I know a
ton of realtors use follow-up boss. So I
built that skill and you can get it for
free. I built a KV core through their
API. And you can do this stuff all
easily like this. The the platform knows
how to do it. I can text my openclaw,
call soando or text text soando,
login in the CRM, move them to nurture,
follow up Friday, and it will do it very
well. It updates the CRM. It triggers
the automation. It drafts the follow
follow-ups. I have screenless CRM
management which is super valuable for
me when I am on the road out of office
afking as the kids call it which is what
real estate professionals should be
doing if they're doing their job
properly out being out there serving
clients. We built in a idx layer. So we
have a idxmcp.
It pulls listings. It analyzes
properties. It structures deal
summaries. It cross references rents. It
can pull zoning for for properties based
on maps. We've even built because I do a
lot of rentals, we're already getting
people's um we're already getting
people's documents for underwriting,
right? Um income, credit, etc. So, we
buil we're building in underwriting
logic, which is the same as mortgage
underwriting logic on the intake. So,
buyer data gets structured before I ever
see it. We built a headless browser that
would go in and book showings on broker
bay, which is the platform that the
Toronto Real Estate Board uses, but now
requires a 2FA. So, we actually built an
11 Labs voice layer, which I can go and
tell my open claw to book a showing and
it'll fire up a voice layer and call the
office and book that showing. calls the
listings off office, books a showings,
handles conflicts, logs everything,
creates a calendar invite, invites my
clients to it. Calendar invite has the
address in it so that I can click it
when I'm on the road on my phone. That
alone replaces hours of my time or
administrative time every single week.
And the idea isn't that it's going to
replace an administrator. It's that it
allow it frees up my administrator's
time to do way higher value tasks. So, I
now have a VA that is exceptionally more
valuable than they were before. For a
lot of agents, um like I co own a real
estate brokerage and and a lot of agents
in today's world are sort of in these
like um downline cap and revshere style
brokerages like EXP or Real Broker,
which basically,
you know, one of the ways that they make
money is by recruiting agents. And my
openclaw now recruits agents. If you're
watching this video, there's a decent
chance that my openclaw actually emailed
it to you or it or my my open call
actually built the targeting for this
video on me boosting it on YouTube to
make sure that it gets in front of
realtors. It recruits agents for me. It
targets purpose-built rental owners,
which is my primary clientele. It finds
unsold condo inventory. It scrapes
sponsors for the events. I host uh five
major multiplex events throughout the
year. And we find sponsors through that
by reaching out to them on LinkedIn and
email. And it pulls the emails through
Apollo and Rocket Reach and Hunter. It
drafts outreach. It logs activity. It
runs continuously 24/7. It does my a lot
of my content. This is huge for me
personally. Obviously, you know, I put
out a ton of video. It researches my
podcast. It drafts YouTube scripts. I
just do them in bullets so that I can
sort of add lib as I'm going. Like as an
example, draft YouTube scripts is the
bullet there and I'm ad libbing to it.
It takes my episodes, podcast and
YouTube, and it turns them into
substacks, which again, these are just
time-consuming things, but they're
important because that means that my
YouTube video now can go into somebody's
inbox who subscribe to my newsletter,
which increases the likelihood that they
come back and see it and do a
transaction with me. It sends email
versions of everything to my audience.
It responds to a lot of my YouTube
comments. It organizes everything in
Notion and it and it scans Notion for
context and memory. It experiments with
drafting offers. We're playing around
with that one right now. It's pretty
close. I think it'll be there in like a
couple of months. And so, one idea can
become like five different distribution
channels. And and all of that is
automatic. Before this system, I was
spending 20 to 25 hours a week
constantly context switching, manual
formatting, manual lock, easily $2 to
$4,000 a month in a labor equivalent for
a virtual assistant or of my own time.
thousands of dollars and now AI handles
like 70 to 80% of that. I supervise VA,
a virtual assistant supervises, an
assistant or administrator supervises.
That's the difference. And after open
sourcing everything that we've been
doing, you know, in an educational
environment on school, like literally
everything you need, you it'll tell you
how to do it in a school group for free
for $0. Don't pay any money to learn how
to do this. After documenting thousands
of hours, agents kept telling me after
I've given them all of the resources to
do it themselves, "This is too
complicated. Can you just give me one
that already [clears throat] works out
of the box? I'll pay $5,000, $10,000,
whatever you want." And so I realized
this is a a very valuable tool. I've
like because I've been retweeted by
Peter Steinberger on this matter. I've
had like my my week is fully booked of
people just booking into my calendar to
ask me questions about how I'm doing
this stuff for real estate and I I tell
them or I point them or I send them to
send them the course or whatever and
I'll give some a lot of people hopping
on calls with me are a little bit more
experienced so that's easier. But people
who are like base level like just don't
get it. Number one, it's super high risk
to like start. I work at a tech company.
I have a bit of a background in tech. I
built some technology for like the
Toronto Real Estate Board and, you know,
work in data science. I know like a
couple of coding languages. Like
nothing,
you know, even I even I'm like probably
a high-risisk user for this. Um, but
people who have like zero knowledge
probably shouldn't be playing with this
stuff. And that's when I realized
because people want to spend so much
money on this product, they want it just
done for them and the risk factor is too
high. I actually am probably solving a
real problem by creating something. The
industry doesn't need instructions here.
It needs packaging. And so Shamir, who I
brought on for an interview in another
version of this video that I'm going to
be putting out, um Shamir and I started
Homie with a couple of other partners
that we have at Valerie. So Shamir
founded Valerie.ca. We're Canada's first
AI powered real estate brokerage. We
built a ton of tools, home evaluations,
a lot of the things that I mentioned
that OpenClaw is now doing for me. Homie
takes everything that we built at
Valerie and everything that I built
inside OpenClaw and Shamir's built
inside OpenClaw and it packages it into
your own AI assistant for the real
estate profession. We're always waiting
for something like this. I call it an OS
layer, although a lot of people flamed
me for saying that on on X. Um, I don't
think it's an OS yet, but I think it
will be. Um, but now this exists, right?
Like everybody was asking us for SAS of
like everything that we're building at
at Valerie and we just couldn't there
was no way for us to like properly
package and deliver that to
professionals. But now that exists,
openclaw has completely changed all of
that. So I brought Jem in to talk about
where this whole thing goes next and
like his experience with it cuz I think
like we've had very two very different
experiences. he sees as like this very
intelligent thing and he puts it on like
really high intelligence tasks whereas I
see it as like a workhorse and put it on
like just total grindwork tasks like
outbounding you know BD uh CRM like just
follow-up call setting like just stuff
that like I wish I had the time to do
and I would be making way more money and
way more impact if I was able to do
those things. Um anyway, if you're
interested, if you're looking for an out
of the box like you know solution, check
out Homie. It's um the links below here.
Just meet yourhomies.com.
And um we're going to be dropping it as
a wait list. We're going to be dropping
it in the next 2 months. Um for anybody
on the wait list, if you are seeing this
open claw stuff and you're just like,
"This is way too much for me. I just
want it all put into a package and sold
to me. I want I want the tool. I want
the life-changing experience of it, but
I don't want to go through the whole
pain of creating it like you just
mentioned. I got you. the links in the
description.