All I see online is people running to
the Apple store to buy Mac Mini M4 so
they can spin up their own version of
Open Claw. I tried spinning up Open
Claw. I spent 10 hours with it the other
night and in my opinion it's not a very
good piece of equipment. Now a few
reasons for my opinion on OpenClaw to be
negative is the way I tried to set it up
was fully locally. I don't want any data
leaving my network especially with a
tool like OpenClaw. I mean there is
several hundred vulnerabilities
currently. Skills are pretty much
unprotected for MCP servers. you don't
know what it's actually doing yet. Um,
OpenClaw itself was vibe coded. Nothing
wrong with vibe coding applications, but
then again, an AI built the app to
interface with other AI, so you don't
really know what's going on there.
Documentation changes all the time. But
I tried to set up with Olama, Quen,
Llama 3.2b, Quen 3, Quen 2.5, different
parameter models, and I found Open Claw
would take about two and a half minutes
to reply to a message, whereas a
terminal will take under a second. Now
upon investigation I found that open
claw when I would send it a message via
telegram it would then wrap my prompt
the text I sent in 30,000 tokens which
was a like a wrapper so openclaw knew
what to do it had the skills the context
the setup how everything was working and
it would send back to openclaw and poor
Quen or Lama then has to dig through all
that now the big downside to that is 90%
of people that I've seen on Tik Tok
Instagram X setting this up they're
using claw API Open AI. Now, the problem
there is you are going to eat into a
monthly budget. I asked Claude, "How
much would it cost if I did 50 messages
a day with 30,000 tokens plus a prompt?"
If I was to use Opus 4.6, which is the
best at coding. So, if you're setting up
a coding agent with OpenClaw, you're
looking at 6 to800 a month.
If you're using chat GPT4.1
mini, this is obviously the cheapest
model that OpenAI can do at some stage.
Uh it would cost you like maybe $2 to
$20 a day, but your code is going to be
My point is OpenC Claw is an
expensive way to do AI. So I done it my
own way. Introducing Gerald. So I've
built Gerald. Now this is a native Mac
OS app that I've built specifically to
interface with my N web hook. So I've
built my own version of OpenClaw from
scratch. Now, I built this in less time
than it took me to test and get Open
Claw to reply to a singular message. I
built an entire automation system and an
Xcode app to talk to it on my phone and
on my MacBook. So, we're actually going
to talk to Gerald this time. So, first
going to start with hello, how are you?
So, this was an app that I built very
quickly so it doesn't look the
prettiest. So, hey, doing top notch.
Thanks for asking. How can Gerald assist
the mighty Nath today? So, you can see
it's got it own personality. Now, this
is all self-hosted. I control all of the
prompts, all of the tools, everything
there. So, what I'm going to ask it next
is, can you please check the GPU usage
on the AI server? So, what it's going to
do is it's going to use that SSH
terminal to log into the AI server and
find out what's actually going on. Now,
that's pretty quick. So, you can see we
got the 3080 in there. It's 59°. No fans
on, which is nice. Uh, so about 94%
usage. the utilization stat seems to be
wrong, but there's a few things we can
keep asking it. So, what uh AI models do
I have running via O Lama on the AI
server? This is obviously very low-level
stuff compared to what you can do with
OpenClaw, but this is just proof that my
8hour build can still interact with
servers as an AI agent and control AI
agents in sub workflows and subworkflows
within sub workflows, which is all
openclaw is. There you go. I've asked it
to create a file in the home directory
called test. The file test has been
created in the home directory. So it
says your but we use the same home
directory which is why. Okay. Moving on
from that. We're going to test it live
knowledge. So can you tell me about the
movie? It's scary movie 6. Now what it
should then do is go out to Wikipedia
and actually get the information. Does
mean Scream which is part of the horror
films. Now it's asking me for more
information. Um I'll just tell it to do
some research for me. I meant Scary
Movie. There you go. So now it should
automatically go and pick up that
Wikipedia node. There you So, Scary
Movie 6 is an upcoming American par
parody film. The cast includes a
returning actors. There we go. So, now
we have up-to-date knowledge. We can
access our entire home service UIs. I
can add separate tools to access my Mac
Mini as well as my mini PC as well as my
partner's PC as well as my TV. Any smart
home device I can connect to. Especially
since I've done Home Assistant, this AI
can control my heating, my hot water, my
TV, my light bulbs.
Gerald is the most powerful thing in my
home network right now. I'm sure he has
more control than I do. Okay, so let's
jump into how this actually works then
because I want to I want to show people
that there's a different way to do AI.
So, if I bring up my N system here, now
it's important to know that N is exposed
via Cloudflare for me. So I have my
services and my IP addresses and I have
special security for web hooks and API
calls. This is not something I'm too
sure on how open claw does. Now the way
that Telegram API works is it only
accepts web hooks over HTTPS, not HTTP.
When I installed OpenClaw, I didn't
install any reverse proxy beforehand. I
didn't specify how I wanted a traffic to
reach out to Telegram. It just made it
work. Somehow openclaw managed to
configure a HTTPS tunnel to Telegram
without me knowing how. So that that's
my first concern is I need to dig into
how that worked more. And I I I just
want to add that I am on a Mac Mini M4,
but I did not buy this for open core. I
bought this last year. Just just
throwing it out there before somebody
comments. Um okay, but let's actually
jump into the workflow, the kind of
exciting bit. So we have Gerald at the
top. This looks complicated and like a
lot of jargon, but I promise you it's
not. This is this is the entire workflow
here. And then you'll see I've got two
models here that go into AI agent. This
is Quen 2.5
and Llama 3.2b.
And then I have a memory node so it can
remember the last 10 messages or even
further. I'll show you this more in a
minute. And then just a boatload of
tools. So you can think of tools the
same way you think of skills with
openclaw. But the benefit to nan is I
can fully control these subworkflows and
I can add a full personal memory system
which has a sub AI model. So this is
kind of what open claw does. You have
the orchestrator which controls the sub
AI models. That's exactly what I'm doing
here. You'll see that I have this will
be llama uh 3.2 the latest. That will be
the 3B model I believe that interacts
with my personal memory. it remembers
facts about me. So when my AI agent
which gets my input from the hook when
it is pulled and it needs to remember
something about me maybe it needs a bit
more context about what I've asked it
will pull down from personal memory oama
will then find a specific memory and
then it can go into the vector store
because it's Postgress database and then
inside of here I have another AI model
called nomic embed text latest. So in
here we already have one, two, three
models for one prompt that does not go
outside my home network. I know exactly
how these work. I can control these
models. And but the thing that I think
that some people don't understand with
open claw is when you use an API and
you're getting open claw to interact
with your whole file system. It can
interact with your calendar. It can
connect your emails. That's like the big
thing about open claw is you connect it
to everything. Now, every time you do a
prompt and it collects that data, you're
sending it to Anthropic or OpenAI. I
think that's a security thing that
people don't really think about is you
are sending all of your data outside of
your home network to companies, which is
why OpenClaw is currently being
sponsored by OpenAI because more chat
GBT usage via API is more money. More
money is better trained models. It's an
endless cycle. Whereas this, this I own.
Nobody gets any money from me except you
know my energy company. Okay, so let's
jump into a little bit more about tools
and then we'll cover some kind of how we
can make it a bit more open glory with
some MCP servers in a minute. So all of
these tools, these are sub workflows
except for this one. This is a built-in
Wikipedia tool which just allows my AI
agent to go and get any article off
Wikipedia so it has up-to-date knowledge
all the time. But for example, I do have
this tool here called call call AI
server SSH. So I've described it as a
mandatory tool and what I can do is
execute bash commands on my Linux server
via SSH and use it immediately whenever
I tell it to. So if I come back to our
overview, you'll see our subflows here.
I should have tags really to tidy this
up. But I built this in under 8 hours
this entire system. So if we go to Oama
SSH terminal, it's very easy. This is
the entire sub workflow. So you'll see
the command is a string and then inside
execute a command, it just has my SSH
set up and then it executes the command
from the input in the working directory
you can give it. So if I then go back to
Gerald and into that SSH tool, you'll
see that the command here which is the
input of the sub workflow is defined
automatically by the model. Whichever
model I have selected over here, if it's
Quen or Lava 3.2, it will decide what
command to run for me and it can
reiterate and reiterate. So I see a lot
of people with open claw saying it just
keeps getting stuck. It it can't do
much. It says can I need to try again
and errors or it needs human
intervention. It can't self captures.
Well, we can get around that with a few
a few cool tools. So I'm building this
out properly and I do actually have
something that Gerald stands for. I just
can't remember what it is. Oh yeah. So I
I acronymed him as guy executing random
local automation duties, but I think I
can get something better than that.
when I send it a message from my Mac OS
app, it will then set the system prompt.
So, inside here, this is not the best
way to do it. Um, I went through a whole
rabbit hole of making Gerald be able to
edit his master prompt as well as his
memory. Kind of got it working, but then
he overwrit his master prompt once, and
I need to think of a better way to do
it. But this this is like under a day of
work that I put in here. And then it it
will execute an SQL query on our
database that we have to gather any
Gerald rules. If I talk to Gerald and I
tell it to call me boss man, for
example, Gerald will put that into the
not in this memory here. It will put it
into personal memory that this is
long-term and permanent and can be
accessed all the time. And that way he
can also delete memories as well. So if
I go don't call me that anymore, he will
then delete the memory from here.
Whereas this is just like the last 10 or
so messages. And that's that will be
like um the call manage rules. So this
will be another sub workflow if we jump
in here.
There you go. So that's it. So it just
passes the instructions and then edits
my database and job done. And then over
here I just have a filter node. So
sometimes with Quen models, the AIS can
wrap thinking around it where it be like
okay the user wants me to do D. I don't
want any of that. So I got Claude to
make me a nice code node which filters
everything out. And then finally, I'll
just respond to the web hook, which is
this original one here. Uh, my favorite
thing about this as well is I do have
Home Assistant set up. I've removed it
just for a minute because uh, as you can
see, I've actually got it set up and
working. So, I could message Gerald from
my phone at work saying, "Put my heating
on." So, when I get home at 6, my house
is 20°. So, if I come into here, you'll
see our action switch. It can get the
entities, clean statuses. There's loads
it can do in here. So, I am building my
own version of OpenClaw. I do not want
to be sending my data to another company
and I do not want to know what how open
claw is configuring its HTTP access to
telegram or all its gateway stuff. I
don't know how secure that is on the
network. I imagine I would isolate that
on an entire subnet if I was to use it.
But the AI that actually does things, we
have made that with Gerald and I love
Gerald. I'm going to add image
generation, video generation. I can pass
images through to him which is something
I'm working through on the app now. And
as far as code generation goes, what I
can do is then create a subworkflow. So
for example, a lot of people use clawed
um clawed code with a pro subscription
and then they tie their clawed code into
open claw and then get opus or sonet to
code for them. What I can do in this
instance is just add a tool just do a
sub workflow and I'll go create a new
sub workflow and inside there I'll then
download an OAMA coding model. So it's
um the this is the orchestrator and then
inside of here would be the agent which
does the coding passes it back up to
here. We can do some final checks. We
can add that into the system prompt and
it can just reiterate until the code
works. So it can work for itself as
well. It's not like a one and done. The
AI agent will bounce between different
tools as needed. And the big thing for
me, a lot of people on open core are
like, bang, I can use, you know,
blender. I can do all of this. All of
that is just an MCP server. So all an
MCP server is so this over here. So if
you know an API call is, an MCP is the
same thing just for AI models to
interact with other interfaces. So if I
wanted to connect Blender here, I could
give Gerald access to Blender via an MCP
server rather than an open clause skill.
So I hope that kind of made sense as to
what I've built. I'm hoping that I've
kind of showed you today that using n um
you know Xcode and GitHub copilot to
make your own app. But you don't need to
download open claw if you don't want to
if you're struggling. I struggled for
over, you know, like 10 hours to get it
actually working at all. And even then
it was like 3 minutes per message which
is painful on Telegram. I mean you can
see how fast Gerald is. So if I come
back up here and just go hello. If I if
I actually type in my box. There you go.
That's so much quicker. And this is all
locally hosted. The big thing for me is
no data leaves my network and I don't
pay subscription fees. I feel bad for
the some people who have forgot to set
API limits and in 3 weeks time are going
to get hit with the biggest open claw
bill ever because they wanted to try and
make some websites. I just want to add a
disclaimer that I'm not on
OpenClaw. It's a very very cool tool. Uh
I am going to put some more time in
setting it up. I just thought that I
could build something better myself in
less time than it took me to set up Open
Claw. So this is tuned to me at the
moment. Now I'm more than happy to also
share my NA executions
uh my workflow. Sorry. Just let me know
if that's of interest. If you also
wouldn't mind hitting that subscribe
button. It would really help me out
fighting the algorithm. But with that,
enjoy your new Mac Mini from the Apple
Store for Open Claw, and I will see you
later.