Open Claw has been called the most
important software released maybe ever.
Not by me, but by industry experts. And
no doubt it's changed how we all think
about AI and autonomous AI agents. But
if you've used OpenCL, you know it can
be frustrating to set up and breaks a
lot and can cost a lot of money if
you're not careful in how you set it up.
And in this video, I'm going to share
seven things that I've learned over the
last 6 weeks or so in using OpenClaw
every day for my business. so you can
use it better and faster and more
reliably to actually get things done and
make it useful. The first thing I want
to talk about is memory. And if you've
used OpenClaw for extended period of
time, you know that it just goes
amnesic. It forgets everything. And it
is because memory gets compacted and
sometimes just flushed entirely. There's
a couple of easy settings that you can
do to optimize this. And they're just in
the docs here, so I won't explain them,
but just point your claw at the docs
here and say, "Hey, how can we optimize
our memory storage and capacity so that
you don't forget as much stuff?" But the
real unlock is QMD. And again, the
beauty of OpenClaw here is you can just
send a link, send this link to your claw
and say, "Hey, I want to enable QMD.
Make it happen." But I want to explain
what this is so you have the context of
what's going on here. So QMD uh created
by the CEO of Shopify, Toby Lutkkey, is
kind of an experimental um he calls it a
sidecar here that combines a couple of
different ways to rank and search for
context that OpenClaw has. And the
problem I think that OpenClaw creates is
it remembers everything and it logs all
of your conversations. Unlike a clawed
code that just forgets everything after
a session goes away. The beauty of
OpenClaw and the way I use it is kind of
a second brain. Everything is routed
through OpenClaw and it then dispatches
agents to go do things. And when that
happens, you have an enormous amount of
context that has to get written
somewhere and it has to be able to go
retrieve that. And QMD, without getting
too technical, really does a pretty good
job of efficiently solving this with
these kind of three different um
mechanisms here. So I won't get into the
technical bits honestly because I don't
really understand them and I don't think
we have to just say like hey QMD good
solution to go from average memory to
pretty good memory. There's some things
you can do to optimize from there but if
you're struggling with memory I would
say this is a really great place to
start. Okay, the next one is talking
about model choice. One of the big
things that I think openclaw has taught
us is that like you don't need to use
opus 4.6 or codeex 5.3
for everything. You should be picking
and choosing how you use models for
different things. An open router to me
is the solution here. So, as the name
implies, it's kind of just a router. So,
a call gets sent from open claw to open
router and it says, "Hey, I'm going to
use GPD 5.4. I'm going to use Mini Max
M2.5. I'm going to use Kimmy K 2.5. I'm
going to use DeepSseek." And the cool
thing about this is you can use the
open- source models often that are
Chinese and there are concerns
potentially about like hey what's
happening with my data when I send my
API calls especially in a personal tool
like openclaw to China and Chinese
hosted infrastructure well open router
kind of manages all these models on
their own right and so you're not
sending your data to a untrusted third
party you're sending it to open router
which you know for a lot of us is a
little more trusted than some non US
sources if you're in the US. So without
getting political I think it's a little
safer way to call some of these open
source models cuz open router is running
them themselves. Okay, next one is
talking about search and I'll use open
router here again because this is just
another mechanism of API and LLM calls
that we're making and this is
perplexity. And Perplexity often is like
the the black sheep of the LLM world. I
use it really for two things in my
personal life. One is it's actually the
first app I open every morning. I wake
up, I'm laying in bed, uh, and I check
the news on Perplexity, but I also use
Sonar Pro search as my search tool
within OpenClaw. So instead of trying to
go to the web and using the Brave API,
which kind of is just garbage, if you've
ever searched using Brave, you know that
like you don't really get the answers
that you want like you would in Google.
Perplexity and their Sonar Pro search
model really cheap and really effective
in getting you exactly what you want
when you tell your claw, hey, go search
the web for this thing. So pretty easy
win here. Use this. You can use it via
open router. you go into the config,
select the models, and then just add
this as a search model and then create a
skill or a rule with your open claw to
say, hey, when I ask you to go search
for something, use this model. Okay, so
the next one is once you get your claw
set up, so there's plenty of tutorials
online and I'll create one in the
future. So if you want a zero to open
claw running uh kind of tutorial, make
sure you subscribe so you get that when
I release it. But once you get your claw
set up, it'll initially have one agent.
Mine's name is Janet. And Janet uh can
do a lot of things by herself, but as
you get a little more sophisticated, you
might realize like, hey, my primary
agent is really just the router. And
what I really want are specialized sub
agents that have really special
capabilities and very specific things
that they do within my business or my
personal life. And so, you might imagine
like, hey, I need a a content agent.
That's what I have. I need an ops and
finance agent. I have that, too. I need
a building agent. And this one really
for me just routes things to codeex. I
use codecs uh in like a headless mode
via GitHub to do all of the code. So I
might say, "Hey, add this page to my
site and it dispatches my coding agent.
It calls uh codec cli creates an issue,
does all the work, creates a PR." Pretty
cool. So, these specialized agents can
have skills and memory and all sorts of
kind of special instructions that they
have that your main agent might not be
able to manage all by themselves. And
so, the top level agent, Janet in my
case, really is that primary touch point
that everything goes through. And then
from there, she decides who to call
Ghostbusters to uh to achieve a certain
thing. I've played around with this uh
kind of parent and child level agent and
I've played around with just a flat
organization to me how I'm using
OpenClaw today the kind of main router
agent and then specialized sub aents and
I only have four of them so we're not
talking about a lot here is the best way
because when you have an entirely flat
organization you essentially are just
doing more work so you're context
switching between Slack channels or
Discord topics or whatever it is and
it's just not as efficient. So I can
call Janet, Janet does the work. She
might delegate that to a sub agent, but
everything ends up coming back through a
Janet in the end. And I just find it a
little more efficient. So I'd love to
hear how you're managing multiple
agents, whether it's this kind of parent
uh and child, not to anthropomorphicize
them too much. Is that the word? Right.
When you like make inanimate objects
real things, not to make them seem like
people too much, but I think
increasingly they are. So parent and
child or flat organization. I'd love to
hear your experiences and how you're
doing this. Okay, the next one here is
actually this is going to be a blog post
on my website in just a few minutes, but
I wanted to preview it here first is I
created a service that we call watchdog.
And we created watchdog because and if
you've used this openclaw, you know this
happens. Say I send a message to Janet
to my OpenClaw and I say, "Hey, uh, go
upgrade to the latest OpenClaw version
or add this model or um, switch the
model that we're using for the heartbeat
to this other thing." And I'll talk
about that in a minute. And then it just
breaks and it breaks and you can't do
anything. You can't start a new session
because something in the config is just
broken. And you have to go to the
computer. If it's a laptop, it's in
another room. It's in a VPS you have to
SSH into that and you have to run open
clog gateway restart and kind of restart
things. Well, what watchdog does it
basically pings every 5 minutes I think
for me the gateway and if it's down it
just restarts it automatically. So it's
like hey if this is broken just do the
thing that I would have done if I went
in logged in the computer anyhow and
this is magic. This has saved my bacon
so many times where the gateway's down
for some reason because I did something
usually and almost always this happens
when I'm changing the setup of my open
claw. You know, truth be told, if you
don't change the model or the rules or
the skills or the agents or something
about, you know, what would live in that
open claw config area, it really is
pretty reliable. But if you're upgrading
or you're changing settings, it can
break for sure. And so like I push all
of mine to GitHub every day uh just as a
backup, but it also has backups built in
locally. But this watchdog is a really
great automatic way for this to happen
to where if it's broken, I know about it
almost instantly. And if it has to
restart the gateway because it knows
that it failed, it just sends me a
message in Telegram. So you just take
this concept and just send it to your
OpenClaw and say, "Hey, just do this."
And I'll include a bit in the
description below about how to do this.
We talked about the heartbeat. So in
opencloud there's a couple of really
important concepts and the heartbeat is
one of them. It's basically like hey is
this thing on? Are we working or all
systems go? And this is uh something
that runs very regularly. I forget the
default but it's like every minute or
every couple minutes. The problem is if
you only have one model working say
you're running Opus 4.6 from Anthropic.
Uh that's a really expensive model to
use for a really basic thing. And so you
can use again through open router
something like Gemini flash 3 or Gemini
3 flash that's really cheap because this
is just a really basic like hey are you
awake cool okay great thanks uh maybe
the okay I'm not great thanks we'll have
a little bit of context but but that's
it and so you don't need a very fancy
model for this you just need something
that's cheap and efficient using open
router makes switching this really easy
if you have open router uh installed and
selected you just add this model
identifier
to your config and say, "Hey, for
heartbeat, use this model, please." And
it'll save you a bunch of money. Okay.
And the last one is if you're having
your open claw use the Google ecosystem
at all. So, Google Docs, Google Drive,
Gmail, Calendar, Google just released a
CLI. And so, previously, this was kind
of a homegrown version by Peter
Steinberger called Gogg, where your
agent needed a Google Workspace or Gmail
address. it would log in and it would
kind of act on its own behalf. And the
Google CLI just makes this more
official. So, it's officially from
Google. And now your agent can do things
inside Google Drive. And the place I use
this is actually going back to this blog
post. I had Janet write this blog post
for me. And again, she has all the
context. She knows the history about
like what was going on, why this
happened, what we did to fix it. So,
she's actually the perfect person to
write this. The problem is she lives on
a Mac Mini uh over there and I can't
just go get that article from her very
easily. The way we use Google Drive is
that's how we share content. You know,
content is one of the main things that I
asked Janet to do for me. Uh and so she
wrote this and then put it into a shared
Google Drive folder that we have. So I
don't need to SSH into that computer. I
don't need to go do all this fancy
stuff. She just drops it here. Um, and I
can take a look at it and I can copy and
paste this into my blog, which is what
I'll do in here just a few minutes. Uh,
but I think that's a really important
kind of barrier to get over, which is
like, hey, how do I get content
especially from where my open claw lives
into the place where I can go review it
or do things? This is the reason a lot
of folks like the Slack integration
because it actually has a pretty rich
um, kind of content and uh, media
preview pane. You can preview long bits
of content here uh in Slack. Uh I just
don't like it cuz like I don't need to
pay for another thing. Uh Telegram and
or Discord work fine for me depending on
how fancy a setup I want. Um so I'd
encourage you if you're looking at, hey,
how am I going to communicate with my
claw, Telegram definitely the easiest,
especially if you just have one main
agent. If you have a bunch of agents and
or a bunch of different things they do,
maybe look at Discord with topic
channels um that each agent lives in and
kind of operates out of. So those are
seven things that I found that make open
claw immensely
valuable and useful in my business and
at the end of the day openclaw is a tool
but there are other tools in our arsenal
and claude code and codecs are maybe
more valuable even to me as a business
person who's building real things
writing code creating tools and just
running a business and so if you want to
see how I view openclaw versus clawed
code.