All the biggest AI experts in the world
are saying the same thing. The next wave
of billion-dollar companies won't have a
100 employees. They won't have 50
employees. They'll have one. One person
using AI agents to do all the work. And
if you do exactly what I teach you
today, that could be you. I'm Dan
Martell. I've built and sold multiple
software companies. I've coached
thousands of people building AI
businesses, some to eight and nine
figure exits. And what's happening right
now with AI is the biggest opportunity
I've seen since early 2000s. So, in this
video, I'm going to show you how to
completely rethink growing a business
now that AI exists. The exact six-step
process to build a oneperson AI business
from 0 to 10 million plus, maybe even
billions, and how to get paid before you
build anything. Let's start with
rethinking business growth. Step number
one, stop throwing bodies at problems.
The traditional business model is have
an idea, hire people, pay a lot of money
and salaries, manage chaos, scale by
adding headcount. The new model is
completely different. The oneperson AI
business model, you start by first
identifying the bottleneck. Then you
look for ways to automate it using AI
and the complexity shrinks as revenue
grows. Your job in this new world of AI
isn't to do the work, it's to design the
system that does the work. Or as Elon
Musk says, building the machine that
runs a machine. In a oneperson AI
business, you spend time on high lever
decisions, not managing people's
calendars. All right, so now that you
understand how to think about growing
your business, let me walk you through
the exact steps to build things from
scratch. Step number two, find a painful
problem worth solving. The biggest
mistake that AI founders make is they
fall in love with the tech, not the
problem. So that's why we start with the
pain, not the ideas. We fall in love
with the customer's problems, not the
product. Another way to think about it
is you're looking for a musthave,
something that people feel like, I got
to get this solved, not a nice to have,
not a vitamin. We want to find the
painkiller problems in the market. For
example, when I started my company,
Flowtown, back in the day, I almost died
because I sold to the wrong customer. I
fell in love with the product and I
thought, "Every small business is going
to want to use this software. It's so
simple. It's a marketing tool. How could
they not want more customers?" So, I was
selling to businesses that were hiring
an agency when I should have been
selling to the agency instead. So,
here's how you find a pain worth
solving. The first thing is you want to
pick a growing market. AI, automation,
and real estate, healthcare, coaching,
all these industries right now are
growing really fast because of this
technology and they're in pain and they
need somebody like you to come in with a
better tool. Now, here's a pro tip.
There's an AI tool called Manis. I would
encourage you to ask Manis AI to do the
research for you. go through and analyze
and come back to you based on your
background and what you're passionate
about and tell you where to start
finding those painful problems to solve.
If you don't know Manis, that's fine. By
the end of the video, I'm going to show
you exactly how to use it and it's
simpler than you think. Number two is
call to ask for advice. If you call to
try to sell them something, you'll get
advice. If you call for advice, you'll
get a sale. If I try to approach them
from a sales point of view and try to be
like, "Do you got this problem?" Guess
what they're going to do? Hang up on me.
Ask for advice. It gets you in the door.
You understand your customer's problem
and then you get the opportunity to
present them your solution. Which brings
to the next step number three is talk to
at least 10 people. Help them design the
initial specs with you and keep those
contacts written down because we're
going to need them again soon. The
reason you start with painful problems
is because their problems are probably
already throwing money at. So once you
find a problem people are already doing
that with, you're 80% of the way there.
Now that you fully understand their
pain, you need to make sure that you
nail this next step. Step number three,
solve the problem manually first. What
we want to do is we want to fix the
problem by hand before we automate
anything so that we can get paid to
learn the steps and the process. So
essentially what we want to do is we
want to start with the workflows, not
the features. And I know you get excited
about the features and it can do this
and that. That's not where we start. We
got to understand the steps first before
we code them. It's like my buddy Matt.
He started a company called Precision.
It's this powerful platform that allows
people to plug in their data for their
business. It tells them exactly what to
do to fix any problems that arrive. The
first version of this was not this
complicated coded datacentric automated
AI thing. It was a spreadsheet. And with
that spreadsheet, he was able to talk to
customers, validate their problems,
create a group of early adopters,
essentially simulate the whole product
before he built anything. And this is a
technical guy who already sold his
company. When people argue with me on
this point, I always say, "Do you know
about crowdfunding? Do you know about
Kickstarter, Indiegogo, consulting? All
of these modalities of people buying,
they buy before they ever receive. So
now that we understand we got to solve
the problem manually, we do need to sell
a few people on the idea first. So we
have to draft a simple donefor you
offer. Step one, we have to write a
one-page offer and it follows a very
structured format. We start with the
problem. That's what they're going to
resonate with. You got that from those
interviews, those conversations. The
second is the promise, which is what is
the transformation they'll receive by
using your product. The third part is
the timeline. How fast can you get that
problem solved using your software? The
fourth is the price. What's the
investment? And the fifth to get them to
buy without being scared is the
guarantee. What are you willing to
commit to? So, for example, you might
have an offer that sounds something like
this. Stop losing customers. will clean
your database and give you insights for
the best next steps for your business in
30 days for 2500 a month or your money
back. Do you see how we had those five
elements in that offer? The next thing
is we got to call back those 10
customers we talked to in step one and
present the offer to them. The best part
is they're excited to hear what we've
learned from other people so they'll get
on that call and then we can just
reaffirm that they have those challenges
and you remind them what they said to
you and you say, "Well, here's what
we've developed and we'd love to have
you part of our early adopter program."
Number three, once they buy, solve the
problem manually first using simple
tools. I'm talking like AI powered
simple tools like spreadsheets, a
virtual assistant, or somebody else that
you can convince to help you out. Here's
an example that Matt did. First off, he
helped them clean up the data. Then, he
pulled all their data into a CRM
manually, cleaned it up in a
spreadsheet, and then presented the
scorecard the precision automates today
with the power of AI. And that's all he
did. And he made money without any
software. So, be just like Matt. I know
a lot of you guys already have
businesses and are wanting to implement
AI into every department. That's why I
created my AI implementation playbook
that helps you integrate it in your
business. Super simple. I'm talking
sales, finance, marketing, all of it.
So, if you want a copy of that, just
message me the word AI business on
Instagram and I'll send it over. So,
you've solved the problem manually and
you're getting paid now cuz you got
those sales done. But now, it's time to
build something. But hold on, don't get
fancy yet. Step four, build a clickable
prototype. Disclaimer, it's not a
product. It's a fake solution. That's
why it's called a clickable prototype.
It doesn't work. It simulates it. Don't
go and spend 50K building a full
product. Trust me, people out there will
take your money. Build a clickable
prototype that looks real, that doesn't
actually work. We call this the Wizard
of Oz. I've done this several times. I
once built a company called Flowtown. We
presented a bunch of people the product.
What did we do? We validated that the
customer understood their pain, that
they wanted it solved the way our
solution worked, that they were willing
to pull out a credit card, and because
we had nothing built, we had to put them
on pause. So, we just said that we had
so much demand that the servers were
overloaded. And that allowed us to keep
them in a wait list that eventually we
could circle back and actually sell them
the whole thing once the product was
built. The idea is to test the product
before you even build anything. The cool
part today is there's tools that are AI
powered, tools like Figma, UX pilot.ai,
or visally.ai AI to create mock-ups in
seconds. The truth is, and I say this to
my coaching clients all the time,
complexity kills more businesses than
competition. So, we want to keep it
simple. We need to simulate the
experience. So, here's how you build
your prototype. So, one, sketch the flow
on paper. What does a user see? I know
in the world of prompting, you can get
it to do that, but this is for you. This
is for us to think about the flow and
the diagram. And the cool part is if you
do that, take a picture of it and then
you can give that to an AI in the
future. Second is use a tool like
visly.ai AI or figma.com. You can
literally describe what you want in
plain English. Okay? So, if you can
speak a language, you can get it to
prototype and it'll build the screens
for you. And then you can link them all
together to create that clickable demo.
And the third is now get in front of
five new customers and record their
reactions. Watch what they click. Pay
attention to what they ask. That's a
really important thing to learn before I
go pay an engineer to go build something
from scratch. The truth is, you'll learn
more in five customer calls than in five
weeks of sitting there coding your
prototype. So, now that you've got a
prototype and you can understand because
you saw your customers react to it,
great. But here's the key. You need to
get paid before you build the real
thing. Step number five, build your MVP,
your minimum viable product. The key is
you don't want to over complicate it.
What's the minimum amount of features
that gets them some value around the
problem they're dealing with? Not every
feature. You're not here to boil the
ocean. The simplest version of your tool
is the best one to start with. So core
features only. If you didn't know this,
Facebook started with one college and it
did one thing which lets you know who
was in your class. Amazon started with
just books. You don't need to be
everything to everyone. You have to be
very specific in your problem solution
for a very specific customer. So for
example, I was building a product called
social suite which takes all of my
contacts, all of my followers. It adds
data enrichment and AI enrichment and
allows me to search it so I can really
mine my network and we were showing it
to customers and they loved it. They
started using it and all of a sudden the
request came in. People will come to you
with custom reports. They want advanced
user permission. My favorite one is
white labeling. Could you white label
this for us so that your logo goes away
and we can use it? But here's the deal.
Don't get distracted by any one person.
All we do is we write down the requests
and then we ask ourselves, will this
impact 80% of our users today? Is it
something they want? The answer is no.
We say thank you. We'll let you know
when we add that and you get back to
business. Here is the easiest way to
build your MVP without code. I'm going
to grab my laptop and I'm going to walk
you through it step by step and we're
going to have some fun. First thing is
go create an account for Manis.AI. So we
load up Manis AI and we're going to
generate a full stack app from a single
prompt and then we'll iterate from
there. So what you want to do is select
the develop apps feature. It's at the
bottom there. You'll see it. You click
that. Then we go into the prompt. Now,
use this exact prompt template. It'll be
in the description if you want to copy
paste it, but let me show you how that
looks. So, essentially, you have your
core promise example, build a software
product that cleans up someone's data
and gives them insights on the right
next step that they should take in their
business. These are part of the offer we
talked about. And then we say only build
the screens cuz we want to make sure we
keep it simple. So, one, the screen and
the login, two, the screen two, which is
the data input. Screen three, output and
insight. So if you've wireframe them,
you can essentially just screenshot that
and you can add that as attachment if
you have it. But it helps you keep
yourself focused. And then we have the
authentication around your email and
password. We keep the UI clean, minimal,
and most importantly fast. No extra
features. We want to tell Manis, look at
this. Make it functional with basic
styling. No ro permissions, no
complexity settings, no admin
dashboards. If something is uncertain,
just implement the simplest version. So
then we run it. It's the future. I'll
just fast forward this, but you can see
it. build the logo and go through and
write the code. That's the CSS code and
then it's going to build the front-end
code and it's going to keep doing it.
It's going to build the database and
it's doing the whole thing and then it
shows you the interface. So, you got the
mobile, it's mobile first. Like I said,
treat it like an intern. Pretend it's a
person. You talk to the person, you tell
it to make it better, faster, simpler,
and it can actually extrapolate what
you're saying and implement those
changes. Here's my big question to you.
When AI can solve any problem, the
problem to solve is knowing what problem
to solve. And that is why I'm giving you
very small aperture to execute so you
don't get yourself in your own way and
solve the wrong problem at the wrong
time. So now you just saw how you can
have your minimum viable product in
minutes, not months. And now it's time
to go live. This is my favorite part
because now you're going to start
hearing what's working, what's not, and
that'll help you iterate and scale.
Okay, so now you just saw how to
successfully create the foundation for
an AI business with one person. But the
final step is where most people are
messing up, but you won't. Step number
six, scale with AI agents, not
headcount. I dare you to scale your
business by adding the least amount of
people as possible. And AI can help you
do that. Here's how I look at it. You're
starting from scratch, okay? Zero to
100K. The truth is you're doing
everything. Okay? You're getting good at
the different skills, but you're using
AI to help you move faster. Then we go
up to the next level. You know that 100k
to a million. That's when you start
building systems AI can run through
automation. Maybe it's the onboarding.
Maybe it's support. Maybe it's operation
financials. Then you go to a million to
10 million. That's where you stack AI
agents and workflow and loop yourself in
only for things that need your
attention. Cool part is if you need to
learn this, you just ask AI to teach
you. At Martell Ventures, where I spend
most of my time, we launch a new AI
company every four weeks. And we just
launched a company that's already doing
83,000 a month in reoccurring revenue
with just the founder and two part-time
contractors. That entire business runs
on workflows and AI agents. Essentially,
the founder spends his time on strategy
and sales while everything else happens
automatically. That is the future of
business. massive leverage with minimal
headcount. The days of bragging about
how big your team is are gone. Now it's
bragging about how much revenue you make
with the least amount of people. And
look, I get it. This is a lot. But if
you can follow these simple steps, you
can build a real AI business from
scratch, even if you don't know anything
about AI, cuz it comes down to
conversations with real people. You
don't need an army. You just need a
system, an AI powered system, and the
guts to do it differently. And as a
reminder, if you want my internal AI
implementation playbook, just DM me AI
business on Instagram and I'll send it
over to you. Now, if you want to learn
how to get rich in the new AI era, click
here and I'll see you on the other