By the end of today's video, you are
going to know how to set up your own
dashboard like this one that can
automatically find the best settings for
your bot that are profitable and robust.
Connect those signals to a real exchange
for real trading. We're going to use a
free service at signal swap.io and then
connecting it up to that exchange so you
can have real trades connected like the
one I have here. Before I connect that
bot live, I'm going to show you how I do
it step by step. Hit the subscribe
button and there's an entire community
as well for inspiration. If you don't
know which bot you want to connect in
this video, join the Troy Tactics
Discord down below. Head over to the
working scripts tab and there is a bunch
of open-source scripts that the entire
community is building and back testing.
If you feel like it, then please like
the video as well and comment any
questions down below. I do my best to
reply to as many comments as I can. And
this Wolfpack Pro strategy, I just have
to take the parameters here. There's a
lot of different parameters. once I
input them onto the Pinescript version I
have on Trading View right here. And if
you actually want access to this exact
bot that I have that I'm going through
in this video, there is a subscription
to it on w.com/traditactics.
You don't have to get this strategy
specifically. You can use the free ones
that are in the Discord if you like. But
this one that I've been robustly tuning
and back testing rigorously, this one is
available right here. As for the metrics
for why I'm going to go with this
specific configuration that my automatic
back tester found is because there is an
outof sample testing data here and it
returned only a 10% draw down with a 60%
win rate. That is why I'm going to go
with this setup in particular connecting
these parameters live. Now there are
other parameters that it could have
selected that might not have passed the
out of sample testing. So I splice up my
back testing data into two sets and I
train on one of them withhold the other
one until later to see if it holds up in
a completely isolated back test like
this one here which has 10% draw down
which is pretty good. I'm going to
connect this live right now because I'm
quite happy with that result. So I'm on
Trading View. The settings are not
accurate right now. So I'm just going to
update them really quick. And then now
that I've updated all of the parameters
here, we have the magic and there are
the results. So we are down to 10 point
10.79% draw down and 60% win rate. So we
have mirrored the results for our
version that we have in Python here. So
this is a Python version, Python
terminal that back tests it and we have
the exact same strategy in training
view. So we have the same performance
metrics here and we are going to go
ahead and set this up. So I'm looking at
some outof sample trade examples here.
There's a short here, a long and a
short. It flips to short and it held its
trade. It's been holding until it
reversed here when the market has a
really large price explosion. Goes back
into a short once that reverts. The
market is flat here. So these are around
neutral trades. Let's see if it catches
the next trend. There's a long and it
held that long. I'm just scrolling here.
It's holding holding and it could have
taken probably a better takeprofit here,
but again, this is out of sample. So,
this is how the bots's responding in
real time. So, given the out of sample
60% win rate, which is pretty good.
That's not too bad. Profit factor 3.9 as
well. And and obviously, I'm attracted
to the 10% draw down. I'm going to
connect it right now to signals swap.io.
I'm a developer for this website that I
wanted to introduce to you guys. When
you go to signals swap.io, just scroll
down here and sign up and it's free to
connect your exchange. I'm using Apex
Pro. I'm region locked for Bybit. You
can use Bybit as well, by.com or bybitu.
So when you register, you have to click
this uh referral button and then that
will take you to Apex for signup. So
follow that button for the sign up and
then when you connect to your exchange,
it will register it and see that you
were referred. So you get free access
here. So it's free forever. So once
you're registered, you will just be
taken to the dashboard page, the main
dashboard. Scroll down to your exchange
connections to add your exchange. That's
step one. So click the add exchange
button and you'll be given the three
options for buy or Apex Pro. Pinex only
has spot trading as well. And you need a
premium account to use Pinex. But if you
use Apex Pro, it is not region locked.
It there's no K KY KYC for it as far as
I know. So if you click the Apex button,
you can sign up for Apex here as well.
There's another link and if you already
have an account then you can go to your
Apex to create the API key if you if you
want to expand the instructions here.
That's how you will do the sign up. I'll
quickly show you how it's done. It takes
2 seconds to do this. So once you're on
your Apex account, once you're signed up
with the referral link from Signal Swap
website, you'll click on the top right
here. Click API management from this
dropdown right there. And then you want
to click generate API. And once you're
on this page, just give it a name. Make
sure that it's on trade. And for now,
Signal Swap does not have any specific
IPs, but it will be available soon. But
for now, just leave this on unrestricted
just for the the IPs. If you were to
restrict it to Signal Swaps IPs, then
you would click this one and then enter
only Signal Swaps IPs. Once you've
entered everything here, click confirm.
And here are the five fields that you'll
need. So you need to have all five of
these fields and all you have to do is
copy the API key and these will only be
available on this screen. So if you
click done, they're going to disappear
and hide forever. So you would copy the
API key, head to Signal Swap, and then
paste that into the API key for example.
And I'm just going to name this Apex
Exchange here. The account ID is right
here. So I'm just going to copy and then
fill in the other fields. Now you'll
notice there's a sixth field here or a
fifth field. This is the L2 private key.
So because Apex is decentralized, you'll
have to click done here to activate
this. And I'm not activating it now just
as an example. But you would click your
Omni key. And then once you click the
checkbox here that you understand, it
will reveal your omni key. And I'm not
revealing it for obvious reasons. Then
you would paste that into your L2
private key here. Once you've done that,
just click link exchange account. and it
will start to encrypt all of these
credentials here that you have. And if
you get this restriction message from
signal swap.io, it means you didn't sign
up for Apex with the link. So, you have
to go back, click use the referral link,
and that will take you to Apex with the
referral link active. So, you have to
resign up. But, if you use the link,
then it will bind here properly, and you
will now be able to go to the create bot
page. So, it's the bot wizard. So, I'm
going to select the exchange that I just
bound, the Apex one here, and we're
doing the Wolfpack Elite Solana 30-inut.
So, from the drop down, I'm just
clicking the Solana pair right here. And
this is an optional step if you use the
back testing module on Signal Swap. This
is currently down, but it will be up
very shortly. It allows you to just drop
your Pinescript directly here, and it
will do all of the optimizations that I
did right here. So, it's it's a very
similar process to this where it does a
complete search of every single
parameter that you tell it to search for
and it'll tell you which of those is
best. So, it'll optimize your strategy
and it'll do it in thousands of of back
tests per second. So, really necessary
especially when you do the stress tests
like randomizing the candlesticks. And
what those candlestick randomizations
mean is take this for example, the
Salana 1 hour chart here. it will
randomize that into thousands of
different variations. So these are all
very structurally similar to the
original data set, but they're
randomized. So you're testing to make
sure that you're breaking all all of the
chunks of data and you're breaking up
all the patterns in the original data to
see if it still holds up. Now, if it
still does hold up, it means your
strategy is flexible enough to work in
real time. Back to the the bot page here
to create the bot. If you do have a back
test that you did, then you can enter it
here. And and if you haven't run it yet,
you can run a stress test if you want to
find the best parameters that you're
going to link up. But since I already
have mine from this dashboard here, and
I have everything configured on Trading
View, I'm good to go. And just a
reminder, if if you don't have an
inspiration for which which bot do I
connect, come to the Trade Tactics
Discord. There are plenty of bots here.
You can scroll through these. These are
all open- source scripts and you can
just download the code, tune it the way
that you like it, send a thank you
message to the creator, of course, and
then come back to signal swap here where
you can connect it all up. So, you can
skip this verify with back test results
if you haven't done the signal swap back
testing yet. And for here, I'm just
going to put I'm going to allocate
$1,000 to this bot and we're going to
enter with $1,000 as well. So, if it's a
brand new bot, you can lower that amount
if you're just testing it. But if you've
already forward tested this bot before,
then you might want to increase the
position size and the total bot balance.
You can also choose flat order size or
percent of equity, meaning it invests
the profit as well back into the bot as
the account grows. I'm going to choose
market or limit. Right now, it does not
matter to me. And for leverage, I'm just
going to leave it at 1.0 for now, but
you can change the leverage mode as
well. And I don't need to enable the
take profits here, although it's nice to
have here, but I have built those into
my bot already. So I'm clicking next and
it's going to generate the secure web
hook for me and the alert message. These
are what I'm pasting directly into
trading view. And this is my bot right
here. So if I copy the alert message and
I create a trading view alert. So I go I
have my bot configured the way I like
it. I'm on the chart that I like. This
is what's going to create the alert
right here. These settings that I have
on screen. So if I create the alert
using those settings, I can select the
trading bot that I have here. And I just
have to make sure I select the same one
that I've tuned it for. And I'm just
leaving this as an open-ended alert.
Although, if it expires, you'll have to
come back and remake it if it were to
expire. So, this will last forever. And
don't create it yet. We have to edit the
message. So, there's a default uh text
that's placed in here. We have to delete
that. And I'm pasting the alert message
that I got from signals swap.io. So, if
I click out of it, it's green. That
means that it's it's good. I copied it
correctly. That was this alert message
here. And then for the web hook URL, I'm
going right here. This is the web hook.
And remember, don't share this URL with
anyone because this is your secret web
hook URL that you can send signals to.
And I just gave it an alert name. And
I'm switching over to the notifications
tab. Now, in the web hook URL, I'm just
pasting that's the web hook URL here.
So, you need a premium trading view
account to activate this checkbox. But
once it's there and the message is
green, you have a green box here. The
web hook is accurate. You can click
create and it will show up in your
Trading View alerts. You'll know that it
popped up by clicking the alerts tab
here and there is the brand new alert
that I have right here. Now that I have
done that, I can now confirm that I've
done that and that I understand the
terms here. And now I click deploy bot.
Now Signal Swap is going to listen to
the signals from Trading View. Now this
is where it's activating everything on
the system. So it's automatically going
to reload the dashboard and it should
highlight our bot right there. Here it
is. Find our bot here. So, this is our
brand new bot that we created. It is
active. If I send signals to this from
Trading View, it will open trades. So,
if I click that bot, I can pop it out. I
can see the live dashboard. Once trades
show up, they'll show up here. And I can
also see the trade history tab. So, I
can see any trades that it's entered,
whether there's any me uh messages here,
like whether it's confirmed or whether
there was an error, like maybe I didn't
have enough money in my account, so it
failed. It will let you know through
this trade history tab. and I'll be able
to monitor all of the metrics and
performance of this bot as well. Now, if
the bot performs really well over time,
this publish to marketplace button will
activate. Right now, it tells me that
because I just created it, all three
conditions are not met. So, it has to be
active and on paused for 60 days and
remain profitable over that time period.
And it also has to trade a certain
amount as well. So if that bot is
profitable, it will take your equity
chart here and it will you can publish
it to the marketplace and get 70% of all
revenue generated from the bot on the
marketplace. So anyone can post. It's
free to do as long as the signals are
genuine. If if there's profitable
signals there, that is proof of
performance. So once you post it on the
marketplace, you can choose the price
you want to sell it for. You can
customize all that. And if you're
subscribing to a bot, you know that the
signals on the marketplace are good.
This is just a test bot. Don't subscribe
to this bot if you're coming to S signal
swap. This is just a test. So for the
back testing tab, this right here, there
will be a back test results. If the back
test was paired when you created the
bot, so it'll bind to it permanently. If
you set up the signals after and then
you wanted to back test it, you can't do
that because you had to know the signals
and do the back test to prove that you
actually did the stress tests. So that's
how we guarantee that the publisher is
posting accurate metrics. This graph is
the exact same graph that you have on
your dashboard. And the only way to have
this metrics change is actually to enter
trades proving that it's it's real data
and you cannot break the system. There
are a lot of other trading bot
marketplaces over the years that have
emerged which have fake data or they
have fake back tests. This is 100% real
data. So, now that it's connected, all I
have to do is wait for the first signal
to come through and then it'll perform
on my account. And it's really that
easy. And if you want to know how I
built all of this trading dashboard
here, I have previous videos where I
built one live. I built it in the whole
video. If you watch that video, it's a
couple videos back. I'll link to it
here. But it's generally very
straightforward to do to build something
like this that automatically trains your
system live. And I've even done other
videos where I've shown how to use chat
GBT or Claude to automatically build you
other strategies. For example, here's
another strategy that I built live for
me a couple nights ago. This one has
very high draw down, so I didn't end up
going with it. It it did actually have
some very interesting out of sample data
here. Again, 0.9 sharp ratio isn't isn't
anything to blink at. So, I might
continue building this one in future
videos. So, if you want to see that and
what I do with this brand new system,
have a subscribe and hit the bell
notification to get notified for that
one. And also, if you don't want to
build your own back tester, Signal Swap
has one here. You just drag it in and it
is automatic. You just drag the
parameters that you want and it does it
all for you. So, I'm going to wrap up
the video here. Thank you for watching,
liking, and subscribing if you made it
this far into the video. Thank you for
being a part of the Signal Swap
community and the the Trade Tactics
community. I really hope to share more
about this bot specifically and how
profitable it becomes with these signals
that I just hooked up in future videos.