Last month, I made over $15,000 from
content creation and AI tools. The
reason why I'm able to make this money
is not because I'm smart. I'm not a
smart person. I'm not. It's because I'm
early. I was early to ChachiBT, to
Grock, to Gemini, to Nano Banana 2, to
VEO3, to to whatever AI tool comes. I'm
early. And the people who are early make
the most amount of money. Now, here's
the problem. These tools cost money.
Chachi boutique, Grock, Claude, Nano
Banana, Seed Dance, Cling 3.0. All of
these tools end up costing a thousands
of dollars per month. But I just
discovered a single website that has all
of the greatest AI image and video
generation and chat tools in the entire
world. It's called Chat LLM by Abacus.
And if you don't have access to all of
them, you're falling behind. You're
already behind. You need to have access
to every single one of these tools.
Every single one of these tools plays an
important role in in you becoming a
generational wealthy in in in the next
uh 2 to 3 years. ChachiBT, Grock,
Claude, Gemini, Nano Banana, Cling, Seed
Dance, all of these play their own role.
And on Abacus, they live in one place
and you can access them on one
dashboard. And real quick, if you want
to stay uptodate on the latest and the
greatest in AI trends, tools, and news,
and how to make money from them as well,
I run a completely free newsletter
designed for normal people to finally
make sense of the chaotic AI world, and
I show you how to profit from it as
well. Scan the QR code on the screen or
click on the link in the description
right now to join completely for free.
Let me show you exactly why this
matters. Why this matters to the normal
person like you and I. right now. We
don't need an education. We don't need
to go to college. We don't need to take
out thousands of dollars in student
loan. It's not the 1990s anymore. The
people who have degrees right now are
the ones who are drowning. But the
people who understand the the most
powerful AI tools in the world and know
how to use them and are early to the
game are the ones who are going to make
millions of dollars. I'm so excited
about those who understand AI and how to
use the AI tools. All you need is one
powerful tool. Right now, we're living
in what's called the AI tool explosion.
Every week, there's a new AI model, a
new AI image generator, video generator,
a new AI tool to uh take out the
garbage, whatever. It's important
because if you don't stay up to date on
all of these new AI tools that come out,
you're going to get left behind. And
Chat LLM has all of them in one place.
And if you want to make serious money
with all of them, you need to have
access to all of them. All of them work
in a symbiotic synchronistical
synergistic fashion. It's crazy how
great they work together and how much
money they can make you. And at the end
of the day, if you have subscriptions to
all of them, you're paying hundreds and
possibly thousands of dollars per month.
Chat LLM by Abacus is only $10 a month.
And in this video, I'm going to show you
exactly how to use it and two very
powerful ways to start making money with
this software today. Hey guys, my name
is Michael. I run Johnny. Who Who cares?
Who cares? Forget the intro. Let's get
right into it. I know your time is
valuable. Subscribe, all that good
stuff. Let's dive right in. Here's why
this is such a powerful platform. Most
people when they're learning about AI,
it's just the AI world is so confusing
and chaotic. This is why I have my
newsletter to break down AI in in the
simplest way possible for normal people
to start making money. But when people
get confused when when people get
overwhelmed, I don't blame them because
look at this. People try to make money
with AI. But there are thousands of ways
to make money with AI. So they have Chat
GBT open in one window, then Claude,
then Deepseek, and then Seed Dance, and
then Cling, and then Grock, and then and
then Perplexity. It's just so many tabs
open. And our our attention is spread
super thin. It's no wonder like most
people don't make money with AI because
they're all over the place. Look at
these tabs, guys. There's so many
different AI programs and and and
software and everyone is is is is
running on a thousand tabs open. I
completely understand. Chat LLM by
Abacus brings every single powerful AI
video generator, image generator, and
chatbot in one single platform. Clean,
modern, sleek, ready for you to start
making money with AI. Okay, let's
actually check out how powerful this is.
Let's click on image and we're going to
go with Nano Banana 2 because Nanoan 2
right now currently is the most powerful
AI image generator in the world. And
Chat LLM by Abacus has all of these
image generators. The best on the
planet. GBT image Cream Grom Imagine
Midjourney Flux Dream. You name it, Chat
has it. Cool. So, let's go with Nano
Manana 2. And a little bit later in the
video, I'm going to be showing you how
to make money with local businesses. So,
let's create something that a local
business might want, something that's
worth a lot of money, and that they
would pay a lot of money for. So, we're
going to go with local clothing stores.
Let's say a local business owner wants
us to create uh an entire catalog around
their clothing and around their social
media posts. So, we're going to say
something like this. And this is just an
example of how powerful Nano Nanana 2
actually is.
Make me a hyperrealistic photorealistic
picture of an Italian woman model in her
mid20s with French braids sitting on an
oversted couch in an abandoned
warehouse, one leg draped over the side
of the chair. She's looking at the
camera with a look like she doesn't care
at all and she's holding a cup of iced
coffee.
I don't know what it is about abandoned
warehouses that I just I love. I
absolutely love. It's so I don't know.
Just it's so raw and rugged. Let's get
it. Who cares? It's getting weird and
we're having fun. We're making some
money. Let's get it. Okay. Image Nano
Banana 2. We're going to feed the prompt
inside of here as well. Number of
images. Let's go with three.
We're going to set the ratio to 69. And
by the way, look how many ratios there
are. This is for Tik Tok, Instagram,
Facebook, YouTube, Snapchat, LinkedIn X,
uh you name it. any social media
platform or any website or banner or
advertisement that you want, it has it
in chat. LLM resolution, let's raise it
to 4K. Always want to go with 4K. You
can add reference photos here. So, if
the business sends us a sample dress
that she wants to put on a model, we can
always upload that here. And I'm going
to show you how to use that here in a
second. Cool. I'm excited. Everything's
all set. Ready for launch. Let's click
run. Okay. Okay, guys. The
This is
this is such a gamecher. This is going
to change the world. And I know a lot of
you might be thinking, how is a woman
sitting in an over stuffed chair
drinking an iced coffee going to change
the world? I I think we have to
understand one thing.
The people who are early to anything are
going to make the most amount of money.
Most clothing store owners, and this is
just a single idea out of a million
ideas that we can all make money with,
normal people alike, can make so much
money with this. Let me explain exactly
why. Small to mediumsiz clothing store
owners do not know that Nano Banana 2
exists. They don't know. They still
think that they have to pay models like
this thousands of dollars to model their
clothes and they rent the studio and the
lighting and the photographer and the
editing and the time and the make sure
the the day is perfect and the sunlight
is just right. They don't know that this
technology exists. Now looking at this
picture, if I didn't tell you that this
was AI, would you have ever thought that
this was artificial intelligence? I
wouldn't have. This looks 100% real.
Which means that instead of local
clothing stores hiring thousand models
and photographers and studios to do
this, you can create pictures like this
in less than 5 seconds and undercut the
competition. Again, guys, I'm not a
smart person, but the reason why I make
money every month and the reason why
people all over the world are making
thousands and and millions of dollars
per year with AI is because they're
early. They pay attention to the trends.
They start perfecting their skills with
AI tools and they start selling these to
local businesses. Check this out. This
is with Nano Banana 2. Now, let's go
inside Midjourney and give it the same
prompt and see what it creates. God,
this is so exciting. Okay, here we go.
We're going to click on image.
We're going to click midjourney from the
drop down.
We're going to give it the same exact
prompt here. And I I want to reiterate,
it's not the smart people who make money
in AI. It's the ones who are early. Let
me show you this for example. Bitcoin.
We all have heard of Bitcoin. Whether
you think it's a scam, whether you
whether you think it's it's uh it's the
future, it doesn't matter. Here's the
point that I'm trying to prove. Right
now, Bitcoin is sitting at around
$73,000 per Bitcoin. Now, if you were
early to Bitcoin and you bought it down
here when it was $385
and you bought 20 Bitcoin, you would be
a millionaire. A millionaire. Many times
over. Many times over. Bitcoin went all
the way up to $120,000. Now it's sitting
at 73,000. Same thing with Tesla stock.
Same thing with Nvidia stocks. Same
thing with the internet, with email,
with Meta, with with everything when it
comes to technology and AI. If you're
early, you make the money. Let's go back
to chat LLM. Now we're talking. Check
this out.
Midjourney kind of gave us an oil
painting style cut. I love this.
Look at this.
Wow.
Yes. This is absolutely fantastic.
100%. It mixed up the style. Kind of
looks like Taylor Swift. It mixed up the
style just a little bit and it remixed
it and and it gave us it gave us its own
version of this. Okay, let's do one more
just for fun. We're going to click on
image.
Let's try
so many choices here.
Let's try GBT image 1.5. Chat GBT never
lets me down. Number of images, let's go
with two.
No reference image size, we're going to
keep it this one. And we're going to
click generate image. Not bad at all.
Let's check this out.
Looks pretty realistic. Let's check out
the other one.
Yeah, absolutely.
100%. Okay. Chat GBT. Chat image
generation gave us this.
Midjourney gave us the oil style of the
woman sitting in an abandoned warehouse
on an over stuffed couch. And Nano
Banana. This by far is my favorite. gave
us this Nano Banana 2. O, chef's kiss,
the the the most perfect AI image
generation model currently in the entire
world. Now, let's take it a step
further. Let's let's really push the
buttons here. Let me show you what I'm
going to do. We're going to take this
image. Let's go back to the main page
here. We're going to click on more and
we're going to go to video gen. Now,
let's throw this picture inside of
Abacus
and let's have it make a video around
it.
She sips the iced coffee as she
maintains eye contact with the camera.
There is dust particles floating around
the warehouse.
All right, let's watch the video.
Short and sweet, but it's absolutely
perfect. Hey, let's create a video from
scratch. I actually want to show you the
power of all these AI video generators.
And let's give the same prompt to three
of them. So, we're going to come here to
abacus.ai chat llm. We're going to go to
video generation. Let's start with
C dance 1.5 pro and we're going to say
something like this.
French model walking towards the camera
in front of the Lou. She's wearing a
white dress and she's holding a dark red
Prada bag. Walking towards the camera
like she doesn't care.
Perfect. We're going to feed this into
the prompt here.
Start frame. No start frame. We're going
to let it use its own imagination.
Resolution. Bump it up to 1080p.
Duration. Let's do 7 seconds. Perfect.
Generate video. Okay. Let's watch this
together.
Oh
yes.
Not bad at all. That's actually perfect.
I I don't see anything wrong with it.
Beautiful.
Okay. Now, let's go back to video and
let's feed the same prompt
and let's go with
Cling AI. Scroll down. Duration. Let's
do the same. 7 seconds. Aspect ratio 69.
Generate video. Okay. Here's the video
that Cling AI gave us. And this is
absolutely phenomenal. Check this out.
What in the actual
Whoa.
Oh my god, guys.
This is absolutely stunning.
Okay, now let's check out another
video generator. Let's go to video
generation. The prompt the prompt is
here. Let's go to Let's go to Sora 2
mode. We're going to go to pro duration
8 seconds. Generate video. Okay, here is
the Sora 2 video.
Absolutely amazing. Absolutely amazing.
Here's the first idea to make money with
Chat LLM by Abacus and using these image
generation models on their platform just
in the United States alone. Let's look
at the numbers that Claude gives us.
There are
over 235,000
clothing boutique businesses. This is
just in the United States as of 2025.
Now, online globally, there's anywhere
from 12 million to 24 million, 24
million stores. Guys, these small
businesses think that they still need to
pay thousands of dollars for models and
studios and lighting and hair and makeup
and photographers and studio time. And
it just so much money to be spent on
these types of services. They think
that's still a thing. I mean, it
obviously is. And traditional
photographers charge a fortune. So do
traditional models. But with Nano Banana
2, you can undercut the competition
massively, exponentially. You can charge
anywhere from $100 to $500 for an entire
collection. Now, these stores, these
clothing stores are constantly looking
for new visuals because this is the way
that clothing stores sell their
products, visuals. There's walk-ins,
there's social media, there's websites,
there's there's branding and flyers and
and whatever methods they use to sell
their clothing, they need
hyperrealistic, engaging visuals. Not
only that, if you can produce videos
like I showed you with Sora 2 and Clling
and Seed Dance, these types of videos
here
for them to put on their social media,
how much would they pay for these types
of videos? A lot of money. I mean,
obviously, you can undercut traditional
photographers and models that charge
thousands of dollars. Undercut them
massively. Models and photographers. All
these jobs are going away extremely fast
with Nano Banana 2 and Seed Dance and
Cling and and all of these AI and video
image generation platforms.
The sky's is the limit. You can create a
full AI business just off of these tools
alone. You can approach these clothing
shops on Facebook. There's Facebook
groups. There's there's Etsy. There's uh
Google. There's and there's there's so
many ways that you can get in touch with
these businesses given the fact that
there's over 200,000 of these small to
mediumsiz clothing stores just in the
United States alone and there's 12 to 24
million across the entire globe. If you
only work with five businesses per
month, that's a full-time living, guys.
If you charge 500 bucks a piece, that's
2500 to $4,000 per month just from
creating hyperrealistic images and
videos with nano banana seed dance cling
on chat LLM by Abacus. The second idea
to make money with this type of software
is this and in my opinion this is the
most powerful way the way that will
create a generational wealth beyond what
the world has ever known. Let's go
through this together. I want to create
this in real time because I want to show
you how powerful this is and how easy it
is for normal people to create this type
of business. So, we're back on the
Abacus Chat LLM website.
Let's go back to the homepage.
We're going to click on image. We're
going to stick with Nano Banana 2. And
we're going to enter a prompt like this.
Make me a hyperrealistic photorealistic
picture of a woman with ripped blue
jeans, a fashionable white top on a
skateboard standing in front of a trendy
restaurant. Now, essentially what we're
doing is we're starting to create our
own AI influencer. And in case you don't
know what these are, AI influencers for
the past couple of years have been
making thousands of dollars per month.
And most of the time, and no, nobody
knows who's behind these AI influencers.
They're scattered all over Instagram,
all over YouTube, Tik Tok, Facebook,
LinkedIn, Snapchat, X, uh you name it.
They're everywhere. And in the future,
AI influencers are going to outnumber
real influencers one to 100. And those
who know how to use these influencers,
create them, and actually be consistent
and post on Tik Tok and LinkedIn and
Snapchat and and Instagram are the ones
who are going to make so much money in
the future. Because brands, by the way,
brands do not want to work with real
influencers anymore. AI influencers are
the future because here, let's click
generate image because they're they're
scalable. They they never show up sick.
They never talk back. They never turn in
they're sponsored post late. They're not
expensive. They never ask for a raise.
There's not insurance. So, anything that
has to do with humans, corporations
don't want anything to do with it.
Corporations want lowest risk possible.
So, knowing what we know about AI
influencers now in 2026, there are
people, and I say people, I actually
mean AI influencer. There are AI
influencers like Itana Lopez, who is not
real, by the way. She looks 100% real,
but she's not. And she can be created
with Nano Banana, too. She is making
thousands of dollars per month. And who
knows if her creator is a woman or a
man, but who cares? This is only the
beginning of where this is headed. And
the people who start their own AI
agencies right now are the ones who are
going to get ahead. Are the ones who who
see the future. We see the writing on
the wall. I've already started my AI
influencer agency 8 months ago, guys.
It's doing pretty well and it's growing
day by day, month by month by month by
month and it's going to grow year by
year exponentially. And I think that
this is the lowest risk uh highest
reward possible business. This is not
stocks. It's not crypto. So you don't
have to drop massive amounts of money
upfront. This is financial security
right here. And there's so many AI
influencers that are making thousands of
dollars through Instagram and Kofi and
and Patreon and Fan View and you name
it. These are normal people who who are
not they don't have to work their 9
toive job anymore. Like they post on
Instagram one time a day and they make
$40,000 a month. Who would have thought
that posting pictures on social media
made that much money? Especially now in
2026, AI influencers are absolutely
blowing up. Let's go back to Abacus.
Look at this.
Look at this. Absolutely gorgeous.
Yes. Develop her backstory. Give her a
name. Give her uh give her some history.
Start posting. Take a snapshot of her
face like so. Use this as a reference
image. Feed it into Nano Banana 2 inside
of Chat LLM and create your very own AI
influencer. Guys, let's drop her
reference image inside.
Click generate image.
Very nice. So, let's say we want to
upload our pictures to Instagram. We can
come over to image and we can choose the
ratio for Instagram, which is I believe
it's 34. Same thing with Facebook.
Facebook is 43, etc. The thing about AI
influencers, guys, is this.
This is not an easy business. You have
to be consistent. As soon as you create
a brand new Instagram account, you're
going to want to like and comment on
other people's posts for the first week.
If you start spamming and uploading as
many pictures as you can, Instagram is
going to think you're a bot and they're
probably going to ban you. So, you have
to warm up your account by liking and
commenting on people's posts. And then
after a week, start posting your own
pictures of your influencer. Be
consistent. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday, Friday, Saturday, every single
day of the week, post at least two or
three times. This way, the Tik Tok or
the Instagram or the Facebook or the
YouTube algorithm gets to know you and
it knows that you're not a spammer. It
knows that you're trying to contribute
to the platform and grow your follower
base every single day. Every day, be
consistent every single day. Do not miss
a day, guys. Do not miss a day. The
worst thing that can happen is you post
a 100 pictures and you get a 100 likes.
The best thing that can happen is brands
start contacting you. You start getting
thousands of likes, millions of
followers, and you start making
thousands per month, even millions per
month, guys. The sky, you never know.
The sky is the limit with this. But you
need to be prepared. This is invest an
investment that you need to make in
yourself. What's it going to cost you to
post one or two times a day? Nothing.
Just do it. This is the lowest barrier
to entry, the highest reward. Start your
AI influencer today. Create one, create
two, create 10 of them. You never know,
in five years, you can be controlling 10
AI influencers that are getting uh
thousands of brand deals and you can use
affiliate links and merchandise. God,
there's so many possibilities with this
guys. So many possibilities. I'm
excited. I'm creating my AI influencer
agency. I've been creating it for the
past seven, eight months. I suggest you
do the same. And look, I want to be
clear about who this is actually for.
This isn't just for the technical
people. This isn't just for developers
or designers. This is for students, for
freelancers, for side hustlers, for
business owners, for for people who are
retired that that that just are sick of
relying on the government or whatever
the case may be. People who want to
create a side hustle or create a brand
new AI business. The barrier just got
removed. If you can describe what you
want in Chat LLM, you can create it. And
and that's the whole thing. Chat LLM by
Abacus AI gives you every top LLM, every
top image generator, and every top video
generator in one platform for $10 a
month. If you go separately, if you if
you pay for these services separately,
you will pay hundreds, possibly
thousands of dollars per month. Go to
the website, click on the link in the
description right now, and join. Check
it out, guys. At least give it a try.
It's only 10 bucks a month. You never
know, you might be able to create a
whole new AI business with this. And if
this video got your brain going and you
want to stay ahead in everything AI
related, including how to make money
with the latest tools, trends, and news,
subscribe to my free newsletter. It
breaks down everything you need to know
in the AI world on a weekly basis in a
simple, easy to understand way. Scan the
QR code on the screen or click on the
link in the description right now to
join completely for free. All righty,
guys. Guys, hope you liked the video.
Hope it brought you massive value. And
we'll see you in the next one. Bye-bye
for now.