Hey guys, welcome back to another video
and in this video I will show you how
you can set up OpenClaw or Cloudbot with
Discord as a communication channel. Now
in this video I will only show you the
Discord part. If you want a full
step-by-step guide on how to set up
OpenClaw or Clawbot as a complete
beginner, I will link that video in the
pinned comment below. And then once you
get to the part where you need to
connect a communication service, you can
come back to this video and just connect
Discord. But again, this will only be a
Discord connection guide. So the full
setup video will be linked below. And
now let's go ahead and continue. So to
connect Discord to your clawbot or
openclaw, you would need to first open
up your terminal uh on the device that
you have installed your open claw bot
on. So for me, I installed it on a VPS,
which is the safest option and I would
suggest that you do the same. So once
you in the setup wizard and you came to
this step right here where you need to
choose a communication channel with your
uh open clawot here just use your arrow
keys and select discord and press enter
and then it might take a few seconds to
load for this short guide to be visible
to you. So this can be a bit confusing
as you only see the text but I will show
you what you need to do to create a bot
on Discord and then connect it as a
profile for your cloudbot to live on.
Again, if this is confusing for you, you
can just watch the full setup guide and
then when you reach this step, you can
just come back to this video. But
essentially, from here, let's go ahead
and first set up our Discord bot and
then connect it to our open clawbot. So,
for this, I will link the discord
developer portal in the uh description
below so you don't have to search it
because it can be a bit tricky to find
uh the specific page on there. So, this
is the uh dev portal and here you would
need to go on the application menu. Once
you're on the dev portal under the
applications, just go ahead and press
new application right here. And then
let's go ahead and choose a name for
this. So for example, let's just name it
open claw 2 because I did one test run
before. And then just click uh this by
create you agree to discord uh dev
terms. And then let's go ahead and
create right here. Now you just need to
do a quick verification for it to
initiate. Then you will see this. So
from here, just go ahead and select the
bot option at the left menu, left-hand
side menu. So once we're here, what
we're searching for is this token right
here. So you can only see this token
once. And if you miss it, you would need
to create another bot. So let's go ahead
and get our token by clicking reset
token, then confirm yes to do it. Then
you would just need to quickly uh verify
your Discord account before continuing.
And after a quick verification, the
token will be visible. So just go ahead
and click copy here to copy the uh API
token. And then let's go back to our
terminal. In the terminal, just go ahead
and paste over the token right here and
press enter.
Next up, we would first need to create a
Discord server or add our bot to uh our
Discord server. So let's go ahead and
quickly do so. So on discord what you
need to do is just click add server
right here to create your own server.
Then just click create my own. You can
select for me and my friends and then
just name your server and click create.
From there your server will be created.
And next we would need to invite our bot
to our discord server. So let's go back
to our intro documentation page where we
created our bot. And here you can just
copy this. And here you can also back up
this to a notepad for safekeeping. And
also before continuing you can customize
your bot settings. So I will just leave
it bare bones as it is and then click on
O authentication too. On this page just
go ahead and scroll down a bit. And here
just select bot for the uh bot
permissions to load. Then you can uh
enable any permission that you want for
your bot. So I will just give it the
administrator access which is the
highest general permission. And here is
our URL that you can just copy. And then
let's go ahead and paste it uh in the
search bar. And this URL will just bring
you to the uh generic bot invite page.
So because I have Discord installed on
my PC, I got uh the redirection message.
But you can just go ahead and click on
this. And then you would need to uh
select a server to which you want to add
it. So of course we would need to select
uh our server that we just created. So
it should look like this. Add to server.
The selected server would need to be uh
this one that we just created. Then once
you have that set up, just go ahead and
click continue. Uh here you can leave it
as administrator and then click
authorize.
And there we go. So I will open our
server. And as you can see the bot that
we created has joined the server. Now
when we have that set up, we can go
ahead and finish the open close setup
page. So here you would need to
configure the discord channel access. I
will just go ahead and select yes. Then
you can uh choose specific channels that
you have set up in your discord server
which openot would be able to access. So
I will just click the first option which
is allow list recommended. And here you
can just list all the channels that you
want your uh open claw bot to have
access to. So I only have the general
channel. So I will just write my server
name which is open close server and then
/ general to give it the general channel
access just like this. And now let's go
ahead and press enter. So we have our
channel configured and then that
finishes the process of setting up our
open clawot with discord. So from here
on now if you would like the rest of the
setup you can continue watching the full
setup video that I linked below. But
essentially guys this is the uh discord
section done. We just invited our bots
to our discord server and connected it
to OpenClaw. So now OpenClaw will be
using this bot to communicate to us in
our server. And essentially guys, that's
how you can connect and configure
OpenClaw with Discord. If you found this
video helpful, don't forget to leave a
like and subscribe. Thank you for
watching.