In this video, I'll teach you how to
optimize your open claw to save over 90%
in API use. Go over caching. We'll go
over model routing and selection. We'll
go over context pruning. I'll show you
how to run token audits. You can
actually see how much money you are
spending. And overall, by the end of
this video, I guarantee that you will
save more money on OpenClaw than you
ever thought was imaginable. Now, I say
that as someone who's now used billions
of tokens. I have spent myself hundreds
of dollars on OpenClaw and I realized
very quickly that this was not
sustainable. So I went ahead and created
a very detailed guide what you're going
to see here on how to reduce the cost. I
myself went from spending over $100 per
day to now spending less than $5 per day
and recently helped one of my friends
who is spending $200 per day now spend
about $10 per day. This works. All you
have to do is follow along. So with that
said, let's get into the video. So,
first things first, I just want to give
a little bit of credit here to Matt
Ganzic. He's really been on top of the
Open Claw stuff. Is a great guy to
follow, and I saw his guide on how he
saved 90% usage on his open claw a few
days ago, and I decided that I wanted to
make my own version of it, enhance it,
make it better, and just walk through it
step by step. So, massive shout out to
him. I'll leave his video in the
description and just want to be clear
that I'm by no means copying what he
did, but I just got some inspiration and
wanted to give credit where credit is
due because he's been on top of the open
claw stuff for a long time. Now, with
that said, what I have done is I have
created a guide that explains exactly
how to do everything that I'm going to
show you in this video. So, any of the
prompts, any of the stuff that I mention
or that I, you know, put in one of the
files is all available here. And while
you probably could just follow this
guide and have everything done without
the video, obviously it's easier to
watch in video format because you have
visuals. I can explain stuff to you. You
get the idea. Now, you can download this
guide for free by clicking the link in
the description. And all I'm going to
ask is that you give me your email so I
can send it over to you and then I can
send you more open claw stuff later in
case you're interested. Okay, so that's
the guide and I will be referencing this
in the video again available from the
link in the description. Now, with that
in mind, I quickly want to talk about
setting up open claw. Now, I assume some
of you already have OpenClaw set up,
some of you do not. And I want to just
let you know that I have two previous
videos on this channel that go much more
in depth in terms of all of the setup
and configuration steps, not related to
the model optimization and saving money
on API costs. So, this video is purely
focused on that. I will set up a new
OpenClaw instance from scratch just so
that I'm starting from scratch and I
don't have anything that you guys don't
have. But, if you want a full secure,
you know, hardening setup guide, I have
one right here. I'm not going to repeat
all of those steps. If you want to
understand how to enable skills, voice
mode, all of that, I have another guide
right here. Again, I'm not going to
repeat all of those steps. So, what I'm
going to do now is I'm going to set up a
new OpenClaw instance. If you don't
already have OpenClaw set up, you can
totally follow along with what I'm going
to do here, and it is completely fine.
I'm just making you aware that there's
more details in some of the other videos
in terms of all of the other config, but
of course, this is also very important.
Now, with that in mind, I am going to
recommend that you do set up OpenClaw on
a virtual private server. This is just a
general best practice. It gives you an
isolated environment. And the method I'm
going to show you in this video allows
you to set up with literally a single
click so you can skip all of the
configuration that would be required if
you wanted to run this on, for example,
your own local computer. Definitely
don't run it on your own machine.
Whatever you do, at least run it in some
type of isolated environment. And just
be aware that this can be insecure if
you don't know what you're doing. So
make sure that you set it up correctly.
Now, with that in mind, for this video,
I'm just going to make a new OpenClaw
instance using Hostinger. This is a
long-term partner of the channel. They
are personally what I use for all of my
OpenClaw bots already, and they have a
KVM2 plan here, which is as low as $7
per month, actually even cheaper if you
use my discount code. So, what I'm going
to do is just go ahead and press on
select plan, and walk you through the
options if you do want to use hosting.
Now, they have a one-click install
option, which means you literally just
go through this and it deploys OpenClaw
for you automatically. It does that
using Docker, which is also a secure way
of doing this. Again, if you want the
most secure kind of overkill method,
I'll leave a video on screen that you
can watch. Last overall message to here,
just because I really don't want you
guys to get hacked, make sure however
you run this, whether it's hosting or
something else. You do it in an isolated
environment where it doesn't have access
to your main computer, doesn't have
access to your primary accounts, and
anything that got exploited, lost,
exposed, whatever wouldn't cause you a
massive amount of pain. Okay, so with
that said, if you do want to use Hosting
or if you're following along with me
here, just select whatever plan you
want. I'll go with 24 months for the
coupon code. You can then enter the Tech
with Tim code. By the way, this does not
work on the one month plan. It only
works on 12 months or above. And that
will give you an additional 10% off. I
then going to recommend that you uncheck
this ready to use AI cuz you can just
use your own keys. You don't need that.
And then what you can do is choose a
location. In my case, I'll go with
Malaysia because that is closest to me
here. And then go ahead and press on
continue. Now, at some point during the
setup process, you will see a screen
that looks like this. Just make sure you
include at least one of these four API
keys. So, in my case, I'll go with
Enthropic, but you can go with anything
that you want. And then just press on
deploy. Okay. Now, while this is
provisioning here, I am just going to
recommend that on any of the platforms
that you do get an API key from, you set
a monthly spending limit and you don't
enable automatic recharge. We just want
to make sure that if your API key were
to get leaked for some reason that
someone couldn't absolutely rinse you
and just have like a ton of money being
charged to your account. So, ensure that
you have some kind of limit. In my case,
I set $100 per month and that you check
this platform regularly, whatever it may
be, to ensure that you're not spending a
massive amount of money. Again, I'm
going to show you a bunch of stuff in
this video, so that shouldn't happen,
but just for security, always lock down
your API platforms and make sure that
you have some kind of spending limit.
Okay, so this is just being deployed
right now. You can see it's spinning up
Open Claw. Once that is done, what we're
going to do is just get into the
gateway. We're then going to SSH into
the OpenClaw machine, start doing some
configuration, and I'm going to show you
how we can view the files of the
OpenClaw instance in a nice kind of UI
or user interface so that we can start
modifying some of those and making the
changes that will well reduce our cost.
All right, so the project is deployed.
Now, the first thing we'll do if we're
using the hostinger deployment is we'll
just press on this open claw button here
from the dashboard. Now, by default,
what Hostinger will do if you use the
one-click install is it will actually
install OpenClaw for you using Docker.
This is a pretty secure way of
installing it, but just be aware of that
because it does change the way that you
interface with the OpenClaw command,
which I'll show you in a second. So, you
see it's opened up this page, right?
It's given us access to this kind of
URL. And what we can do is copy the
gateway token and then just paste the
gateway token inside of here and then
log in. If you didn't get that, you can
copy the gateway token. There's a button
right here. Press open claw, sign in. It
should bring you to the gateway. And now
you can communicate with your openclaw
bot by typing something like, "Hey."
Now, once you verify that this is
working and you've connected to the
gateway, what we're going to do is open
up a terminal or a command prompt and
we're going to SSH into the remote
machine so we can start configuring it.
Now, I'm going to assume that you
probably know how to do this if you've
already set up OpenClaw. If you haven't,
all this is going to do is essentially
log in to this remote computer and allow
you to execute commands on it. So, what
we're going to need is access to this
command right here from the hosting or
dashboard in overview where it says SSH
root at and then the IP address of our
server. If you're hosting this somewhere
else, then you're going to need to know
the IP address of your server and you're
going to have to know your user, which
is usually root unless you've changed
it. Now, because we're using Hostinger
and it doesn't give us the root password
by default, we're going to press this
change button. We're going to generate a
random root password. We're not going to
expose that to anyone. We're going to
copy it and we're going to confirm. So
just change the root password to
something that you can at least remember
or write it down somewhere in a secure
environment. And just make sure you know
the root password and you know the IP
address of your server. Okay. Then what
we're going to do is open up a terminal.
We're going to go into the terminal and
we're going to copy the first command
that we had. So SSH root at IP address
of the server. Again, this is securely
logging into the server so we can run
commands on it. If you've hosted this
somewhere else, you need the IP address
and you need the user. Again, usually it
is root. If the user is something else,
you need the user and you need that
user's password. If it's root, you need
root and then you need the root's
password. You can usually reset that
from any hosting providers like UI.
Okay, so we're going to go ahead and
press on enter. From here, we're just
going to type yes and hit enter. And
then what we're going to do is paste in
the root password. Now, to paste it, you
can hit CtrlV on your keyboard or you
can rightclick on the mouse depending if
you're on Mac or if you're on Windows.
You will not see anything appear here.
That is completely normal. And just go
ahead and press on enter. You also can
type it in obviously, but just be aware
that you won't see anything. So just
type it or paste it and then hit enter
once it's correct. Okay. So from here,
we're now inside of the server. But
because Hostinger runs OpenClaw using
Docker, if we want to access Open Claw
and start doing any configuration using
the Open Claw commands, we need to
actually execute the Docker container.
This is not complicated, but it just
requires a few more steps. So bear with
me. Now, if you're not using Docker, you
should just be able to directly run the
open claw command here. So, open claw
like this. But you'll notice that when I
do that, nothing happens because the
open claw command is only available
inside of what's known as a docker
container. A Docker container is just an
isolated kind of environment that's
running on the virtual private server.
And it makes it so we can really easily
restart the environment or shut it down
or, you know, create a new one if we
need to as opposed to installing
everything directly on the server and
not inside of this environment. Again,
I'm just giving you some options because
I don't know how your open claw is set
up. So from here on the hosting or VPS,
we're going to type docker ps. Now
docker ps is going to show us the
different containers that are running.
You'll notice two here. The one that
we're looking for is the one that's
labeled openclaw. Now what we want to
find is the ID of this container which
should be on the far left side like
this. So we have 377 uh FF6 whatever.
We're just going to copy that by uh
highlighting it and pressing Ctrl + C.
We're then going to type docker execit.
We're then going to paste the container
ID which is the one that we just found
from above and we're going to type /bin
slashbash. Okay. Now, what this is going
to do is it's going to bring us inside
of the Docker container so we can start
executing commands in there. Again,
you're going to type this exact thing,
docker exec-it.
This is going to be whatever your
container ID is, which will be
different. And then /bin/bash, and go
ahead and press enter. Now, what you
should notice is that you get this ID
changing here at the at. So, it should
change from srv to something like this.
And that uh that is how you know, sorry,
that you're good. Now, if you want to
clear the terminal, you can type clear
just so it brings you up to the top of
the screen. Now from here if we type the
openclaw command we should be able to
access openclaw. So let's wait for a
second. It should start running and this
will allow us now to run the commands
that we need in order to make some of
the configurations and changes. Okay. So
now that we're inside of the server you
understand how you can run the openclaw
command and change something from here.
What we need to find is the
openclaw.json
file which is a file that we're going to
start modifying in order to apply some
of the model optimization changes we're
going to make. Now, you can do this
directly from inside of the terminal.
And the way that you'll do this is by
using the nano command, which is a
built-in text editor. If I type nano,
you'll see it opens something like this.
However, this is really not efficient
and not going to be very easy for a lot
of you to use. So, I'm going to show you
an additional method that allows you to
view all of the files that are on your
server if you're using a virtual private
server, so you can modify them without
having to use the terminal. Now, we
still will need the terminal later, so
we'll leave it open. But what we're
going to do now is we're going to open a
tool called Visual Studio Code. This is
free. You can download it. It is
extremely popular. Just search Visual
Studio Code online. And I'm going to
show you a way to remote access your
server's file system. Again, this will
make it a lot easier. And if you don't
already know this, you're welcome
because this will save you a massive
amount of time. So, what we're going to
do is open up Visual Studio Code. You'll
see I was already connected to a session
previously. And what I'm going to do is
just go file here and new window. You
don't need to do this just because I
already had something open. Okay. So
from Visual Studio Code, don't worry if
yours doesn't look exactly like this.
It'll probably be a different color.
What you're going to do is you're going
to look for this kind of puzzle piece
icon on the left side. And you're going
to search for the SSH extension, which
for some reason is taking a long time.
And yes, this is what we're looking for.
Remote SSH from Microsoft. Okay. Look
for the one with the official check
mark. and we're going to install this.
So, I already have it installed, but
just find the extension again. Puzzle
piece SSH install. Now, once that is
installed, you're going to hit the
following shortcut on your keyboard.
Controll shift and then P. Okay. Now,
you also can press this button down here
in the bottom left, which is open a
remote window. Now, if you hit control
shiftp or command shiftp, this is going
to open up the command pallet for you,
which looks something like this. and you
can type remote and then you should see
a bunch of options here. The one that
we're going to look for is connect to
host. So go remote- SSH connect to host.
Just press it again. You can also press
the B uh button here in the bottom
lefthand corner. So we're going to press
that button. Now from here you likely
won't see anything. You'll just see add
new SSH host. So you're going to press
that and we're going to type or copy
what we used previously in our terminal.
So SSH root at then the IP address of
your server. Again, to find that if
you're using Hostinger, you would just
go right here and copy it. If you use
another provider, well, you have to find
this SSH command. Okay, so we're going
to go ahead and press on enter where
when it asks us to save this, just
choose whatever the first option is. And
then it should um what is it? Save the
config. Now that it is saved, same
thing. Control shiftp or commandshiftp.
Open up the command pallet and we're
going to type again connect to host.
When we do it this time, we're going to
select the IP address of the server that
we just added. So, I believe it is this
one. And then it should open up a new
window for us. Now, in this new window,
let me zoom in. We're going to select
Linux. Okay. And we're going to copy the
root password and paste it when it asks
for the password. So, it's asking for
the password. We're going to paste it in
and hit enter. Now, what that is going
to do is going to take a second, but
it's going to open a remote view of our
server that allows us to directly
download, upload, modify files right
from this user interface without having
to use the terminal to make these
changes. Okay, so you'll know that
you're connected when you see this at
the bottom left of your screen where it
says editing on SSH. What we're going to
do then is look for the explorer, which
is kind of like this file looking menu.
You also could go file and then press
open folder. So, we're going to go open
folder. When we do that, it's going to
give us a prompt here in terms of
selecting the folder. Now, the folder
that we want to select is going to be
slash and then it should be docker. So,
we're looking for slashdoccker. Then,
we're going to have slash and we're
going to select the open claw folder.
Okay? And then we're going to go slash
data like that. And we should see
aopenclaw folder, which is the one that
we want to open. And we'll go ahead and
select it. Now, if you're not using
Hostinger and Docker, then you're going
to have to find the location of this.
OpenClaw folder. The normal locations
for this will be inside of your users
directory. So, if you're root, it will
likely be inside of just the root
folder. If it's not inside of there,
then it would be inside of /home
slash and then whatever your username
is. So, you can see like there's one
called abuntu, but it could be in
another location. Again, I don't know
what location it's going to be in
because I am not working with your uh
what do you call it, you know, open claw
instance. So, I don't know, but I just
know here that it's going to be in this
directory/doccker/openclaw/data
then openclaw and then go ahead and
press on enter or open or whatever.
Trust and continue. And you should see
all of the files pop up here on the left
hand side. Okay. So, at this point, you
should now see all of your files from
that folder. And we're looking again for
this openclaw.json file. Now, inside of
this openclaw.json file, what we're
going to do is we're going to start
changing a bunch of settings so that we
get this model kind of optimization I
was talking about. Now, the first
optimization that we're going to make is
model routing. Now, the idea is that you
don't just want to set one default um
kind of model and just have OpenClaw use
that all the time. A lot of people are
using Opus 4.6 for literally every
single operation on their OpenClaw,
which is costing them like 20 times more
than they need to be spending. There are
different models even just within the
claude ecosystem where we have opus
sonnis we have haiku right sonnet sorry
and then haiku you know you can use all
of these and they can accomplish the
same task and in fact sometimes even
these cheaper models can just do it
better because they're so much faster
and they don't run into any rate limits.
So what we want to do here is we want to
change some of the model configuration
so that we're using the correct models
and we're routing between them
accurately. Now in order to route
between them we need to have different
models that we can select. Now, what I'm
going to suggest is that you add as many
models here as you're comfortable
adding, as long as you understand which
ones you're adding, right? And which
ones you want to use. So, I would
suggest having at least two different
providers for the LLM models that you
want to use. I'm going to show you
exactly what I mean in one second. But
right now, we just have Claude, right?
Because I've just added the anthropic
API key. So, what I'm going to do is I'm
going to add an OpenAI API key and I'm
going to add a GPT model as well. So,
ideally, you want to have two providers.
The reason why you want to have at least
two providers is because if one of your
providers gets rate limited, you want to
be able to switch over to another
provider so that you can start using
that. So, for example, if we're using
Claude and all of a sudden we hit a rate
limit, we don't want to wait 2 3 4 5 10
minutes before we can continue. We can
just instruct the model or instruct the
agent to switch over to now use uh what
is it? The GPT model instead. even if
it's not quite as good. It can finish
the task with GPT and then when the rate
limit is done, it can switch back over
to use something like Opus or Sonnet.
So, what I'm going to do is just
reference my guide here because this
kind of explains how to do it. So, let's
go to model routing. And as we scroll
down here, okay, this is the setting
that we're at. So, we're editing this
openclaw.json file. Now, what we need to
do is we need to start by adding the API
keys for the model providers that we
want to use. Now, we've already added
anthropics, so we don't need to use
that. But what we can do to add the API
keys is we can add this env section at
the top of our openclaw.json file that
indicates the API keys for the other
providers. So, what you can do is just
copy this section directly from the
guide. So, I'm just going to copy here.
You also can just, you know, type it in
and just paste it at the very top of
your JSON file inside of this first
brace. Now, you have to be a little bit
careful here uh because JSON is very
sensitive to syntax. And you'll notice
that JSON stands for JavaScript object
notation has braces. It then has these
text fields that are surrounded in
double quotation marks with colons.
These are called keys and then another
set of braces or a set of string, right?
And then another set of keys and then
potentially values. Now, one thing to
note is that all of these keys and
values are separated by commas except
for the one at the very end. So you'll
see like comma comma comma, but no comma
right here. Make sure you don't
accidentally add a comma here because if
you do that, it's going to yell at you
and it's going to give you an invalid
configuration. So if you get some error
message saying like invalid
openclaw.json, you just made a mistake
in the JSON. And what I would suggest
you do is just copy all of it, give it
over to chat GBT or something and say,
"Hey, fix my JSON for me." And then it
will fix it. Now, you should remove the
keys before you do that, but you get the
idea. Okay. So you notice here that I
have four sets of API keys. Now, I'm
just going to include the OpenAI API
key. So, I'm going to remove these other
ones that I'm not going to use, but I
was just putting those there as an
example. So, what we're going to do now
is we're going to find an OpenAI API key
and we're going to paste it here. The
more models you put, the better, but at
default, just have two providers. So,
I'm going to remove this. Now, I'm going
to go and I'm going to get an OpenAI API
key. So, I'm just going to say OpenAI
API key, right? I'm going to go over to
this page and I'm going to generate a
new key. Okay, so I put the key inside
of here. Obviously, I'll delete it after
the video. And again, if you want other
model providers, you put them here. Now,
if you already included a key, like you
already did enthropic before, you
already did OpenAI before, you don't
need to replicate it here. Uh, Claudebot
or OpenClar, whatever is going to pull
these keys from different locations. It
will pull it from what's called your
environment variables, which in our case
is configured by Hostinger, or it will
pull that from this env.json.
So, don't worry about replicating a key
if you already had it. This is just when
you're adding a new provider. So, now
that we've added this new provider,
let's go back to the guide quickly. What
we can do is we can include some more
models that we want to use. So, if we go
to my guide, you'll see that I have a
new JSON file here. So, what you'll see
in this guide is I just have a short
list of providers that you can just
directly copy into your configuration.
Now, you're going to want to change the
GBD 40 mini and 40. This was just AI
generated to the newest models like GBT
5.1, GBT 5 mini, which I'll change in a
second. But based on the providers that
you're using, now you find the list of
the models that you want to use, right?
And you add them into the config. So
what I'm going to do just for demo
purposes, I'm going to copy this whole
model section here. Okay? Or actually,
I'm going to copy this whole defaults
section just so we can copy all of it.
I'm going to go to VS Code. I'm going to
go to my defaults and I'm going to
replace the defaults. Now, make sure
that you match up the braces so that I'm
replacing this whole default section,
right? And you can kind of see the line
lining it up here. And I'm going to
paste this. And then I'm going to save.
Okay. Now, to save. Sorry. So, let's
just tab that in. Uh, you can hit Ctrl S
on your keyboard or you can go up if you
have this unexpanded and go file and
then save. Okay. Now, what you'll
notice, right, is that we have a bunch
of models here. So, we have the
anthropic models we had before, and we
have what's called an alias. Now the
alias is just a shorthand that we can
call it so that uh openclaw understands
you know what the name of the model is
and you'll see that we have the three
cloud models that we had before. So we
have opus 4.6 cloud sonnet 4.5 I think
now they have 4.6 so you could change
this like 46 or haiku 46 right you got
to check what the recent model is and
then you can set your primary model.
This is the default model that you use
by default to in my case claude haiku
4.5. The reason why I'm using this is
this is the cheapest model and we'll
start by having the cheapest model and
then tell the cheapest model to select a
more expensive model if it needs that
for the given task which you'll have a
look at in a second. So the point is
we're adding various models. Now in
terms of these models we want to remove
any of the ones where we don't have an
API key. So I don't have an API key for
Gemini or DeepSeek. So I'm going to
remove those. Right? But I do have them
for OpenAI. So I'm just going to adjust
these quickly. So we're going to have
GBT 5 mini and then GBT 5.1 I believe is
the current one that we can use. So just
adjust those so that we have the correct
name. Now if there's any issues with
this JSON again you'll know when you run
open claw in a second which I'll show
you. Okay. So at least now we've
selected or we've enabled a few other
models. Now in order for us to actually
save these changes because we're using
docker we're just going to go back to
our terminal. We're going to make sure
we've exited out of the Docker container
which you can do by typing the exit
command. So let's say we were back
inside the Docker container. So, we had
this docker exec command. You'll notice
we're inside of it, right? Because of
this ID. To get out of it, you just type
exit. And now it brings you back to the
root OS. Now, from here, what we're
going to type is docker restart. And
then we're just going to restart this
container. So, we're going to copy and
paste this. Okay. Now, when we paste the
container ID, what this is going to do
is restart the open clog gateway for us
automatically and apply any of the
changes that we've made here in this
file. So sometimes you'll make changes
here but they won't actually be applied.
If they're not being applied then what
you need to do is you need to restart
the gateway which again I just did from
here. Otherwise restarting the gateway
is you can run the open claw command
like openclaw gateway restart. However
you don't want to do that if this is
running through a docker container for
some various reasons that we don't need
to get into. The way that you restart it
with docker is doing docker restart
container ID. Again the container ID you
get from running docker ps like this. If
you're running open claw in a different
way then you can just run the docker
command I showed or sorry the open claw
command. So open so again you can run
open claw and then gateway okay restart
like I mentioned and it will restart it
for you. You can also just tell openclaw
to restart the gateway. Okay. So now
that that is applied what we're going to
do is we're going to go to the openclaw
gateway. So let's go here and we're
going to say what model are you using?
And we're just going to test and see if
it's using the correct model.
Okay. So, you can see we have the
correct model here. Then I'm going to
say, what models do you have access to
and let's enter it and see what we get.
And you can see that it shows us now the
five models. So, just test that and make
sure that it has access to these various
models. So, sorry, quick pause. I did
realize they do actually have Claude
Sonnet 46. So, I just added 46. We also
still have 45. We could remove that if
we want. And then we have Haiku 45, but
they don't have Haiku 46. So, keep haiku
455 as the default, right? Because we
want the cheapest one. Uh, but then add
46 because obviously it's better than
4.5. Okay. So, anyways, what I did is I
was just messing around with some stuff
in the chat and I just wanted to show
you that now that we have these models
available, you can actually type /model
and then you can switch to a particular
model if you want or you can just tell
the agent to switch. So, say switch to
use the opis 4.6 model, right? You can
just tell it to do that and then it can
automatically switch to a different
model. And this is the feature that
we're going to leverage here now to
handle model routing. So now that we
have this, what we want to do is we want
our open claw to automatically select
the best model based on the task that
it's given. 90% of tasks you can run
using this haiku 4.5 model. It's still
pretty good. It's very fast. It's very
cheap. And if you need advanced
reasoning, you can use opus. And if you
need something kind of in the middle,
you can use sonnet, which is
significantly cheaper than opus. So,
what we're going to do is we're going to
go to our workspace here and we're going
to open up this soul.md file. Now,
inside of this soul.md file, I mean, you
can change this to anything that you
want. What we're going to do is we're
going to put in some model routing code,
which is effectively a prompt telling
this, okay, what model should you use
based on what we're asking you to do.
Now, you can find the exact prompt that
I am going to use here if you just
scroll through to step four, adding
routing rules to soul.md.
Now this is the prompt that I'm going to
copy. So I'm just going to copy it in
and then I will read it to you. But you
can change it to anything that you want.
Generally speaking it is very it's going
to be very similar sorry to this. Okay.
So actually you are going to have to
change it based on what we have here. So
it says model routing rules read before
every task. Default always start with
haiku claude haiku 4.5. Switch donnet.
I'm going to change this to 4.6 cuz now
we have access to that only when the
task requires designing reviewing
security a major decision. If anthropic
is unavailable, okay, or rate limited,
for example, then you can switch to
these models in order. I'm going to
remove the two we don't have and I'm
going to change this to GPT 5 mini.
Okay, so this is kind of the equivalent
to haiku for complex task that need
sonnet level capability. Switch to GPT
5.1, right? And then we put that like
that. Okay. Never switch models mid task
unless you hit a rate limit. Never use a
premium model for writing, reading files
or simple questions. status updates,
formatting, etc. And then if we wanted
to add the opus one, we can do another
one and we can say switch to opus,
right? Claude opus 4.6 only when the
task requires uh advanced reasoning
that sonnet is not doing successfully.
Right? So you can add whatever you want
here for the rules, but the point is
that we're adding routing now to this
soul.md. So any time that we're asking
for a particular task, it's going to be
reading this and then switching the
model as needed. Okay. So now that we
have that, what we can do is we can just
test and we can say based on your
routing rules, what models should you be
using in what situation, right? And then
we're going to go ahead and press enter.
Now it might not have it updated right
away if we've changed the soul.md, but
let's see cuz we might need to restart
the gateway. Uh but it should now tell
us, assuming it's reading the correct
soul, what models it should be using.
Okay. Yeah. So it looks like I got to
just restart the gateway before this is
going to apply. So let me just go docker
restart. And then when we restart, if we
chat with it again, it should now have
the soul.md updated and we should be
able to uh what do you call it here? Get
a correct answer. Okay, perfect. So the
gateway restart worked and you can see
it found it in soul.md and as default,
you know, sonnet 4.6, opus 4.6 and then
the various fallbacks. Again, the
fallbacks are important for if we hit a
rate limit. Okay, cool. So we now have
these rules applied and already this is
going to give us significantly better
performance but it's just scratching the
surface of what we really need to do to
configure this further. So to configure
this even further the next thing that
we're going to add here is session
initialization. Now by default open claw
is going to load a full conversation
history of every message that you've
sent I believe in the past 2 days into
context anytime you create a new
session. Now this is extremely wasteful
and also loads a bunch of other files
that you don't need. So what we can do
is we can tell it to only load the
absolute necessities before sorry when a
new session begins so that we don't have
all of this stuff bloating up our
context which is costing additional
money. Now the reason for this is that
what ends up costing you money when you
are using these models is the number of
tokens that you're sending and the
number of tokens that you're receiving.
And think of token like a word. So if we
load, you know, the past two days of
session history and you were chatting a
ton, that could be, you know, tens of
thousands of tokens that are just being
added wastefully to every single request
that's sent to our API provider. So it's
not really about the number of requests
that we send. It's about the size of the
requests that we send. And we want to
reduce that size and that's effectively
what this is going to do. So there's
another uh prompt effectively that I
have here, which is session
initialization. You again can change
these rules to be whatever you want. But
what I'm going to do is just copy this
and then put this below what we had
below before. Sorry, in our soul.md. So
same thing in soul.md. We're just going
to paste this session initialization
load limits says at the start of every
session load only soul.md user.md and
then today's memory file if it exists.
Do not automatically load the full
conversation history memory. MD session
or logs from previous days. Tool outputs
from past sessions. And when the user
asks about past context, run memory
search. If found, run memory get. Return
only the relevant snippet. Do not load
the whole file. And at the end of every
session, write a summary to memory. Keep
it under 500 words. And the format is
bullet point only. So, I'm not going to
go through all the files, but there's
this file memory. MD, which will slowly
fill up with long-term memory that the
bot keeps. Then you will have uh what is
it? We don't have it right now because
it hasn't written anything yet, but
you'll have like daily memory logs. The
point is we only want to load what's
necessary and we'll search through the
memory to see if there's something
that's necessary before we load it. And
this is an effective search. That is,
how can I explain this? It's just going
to search the memory rather than loading
all of it into like you know an LLM.
It's going to search it using standard
like searching in computer science and
coding which doesn't cost you any money.
Then if it finds something relevant,
only then will it load that. So anyways,
what we're going to do now again is just
save soul.md and then same thing restart
the gateway from the terminal or in any
way that you want and we should be good
to go here. We now have session
initialization done. Now I can't really
prove to you that this is going to work
but you should see that it reduces the
context size and now we're going to move
on to the next feature which is to set
up a local heartbeat with Olama. So a
heartbeat is something that allows open
claw to automatically run at a set uh
time increment. So every 30 minutes,
every 60 minutes, every two hours,
whatever. Most people have it set up to
run like anywhere from 30 to 60 minutes.
Now, what the heartbeat is doing is
effectively pinging the current tasks
that are happening inside of Open Claw
and just kind of telling them to
continue. It's a very very basic task
that is does not require any level of
like intelligence to complete. And by
default, if we use an LLM provider, so
something like Enthropic or OpenAI, and
we're sending a request every 30
minutes, we're just wasting money on
these heartbeats because they're not
really doing anything useful, but
they're just like checking, is there
anything that needs to continue? Okay,
continue. Right? That's what a heartbeat
is kind of doing. You can read this. You
know, heartbeat is a scheduled check-in
that OpenClaw sends to an AI model on a
timer. By default, this would use your
paid API credits. This step routes those
check-ins to Olama, a free AI that runs
locally on your server that never costs
you anything. So, what we're going to do
is we're going to install O Lama. This
allows you to run LLMs locally on your
own computer. And we are going to run a
very lightweight, very easy to run
model, Llama 3.2, uh, on the computer
that we can kind of delegate these
heartbeat tasks to. Now, a lot of you
might be saying at this point, okay,
well, if we're going to run a local
model, then what's the whole what's the
whole point of this? Why don't I just
use a local model the whole time? The
issue is that these local models that
are capable of running on small VPSs or
even like my computer like huge computer
that I have are very limiting. In order
to run these frontier models, which are
the best, which are the ones you want
running all of the time, you require
like a massive amount of hardware that
costs, you know, tens of thousands of
dollars. So, we can't run like clawed
opus 4.6 on our own computer on a
virtual private server unless you know
more than me and you're not watching
this video, right? So, Olama is just
used for these really light, easy tasks
that we don't really need intelligence
for. We just need like a quick checkup
and then everything else we still go to
the LLM provider for because it provides
the intelligence that we value that
we're willing to pay for, right? So,
anyways, what we're going to do is just
follow these steps. So, we're going to
go into our server. What we can do is we
can get out of the Docker container like
we are and we can run this command. This
command is going to install O Lama for
us. So, curl fssl, right? And then
running. Wait for that to finish. And
then the next thing that we're going to
do is just make sure is installed. We're
then going to start the lama service.
I'm going to fix this cuz it's a little
bit messed up in the formatting. We're
going to pull the lama model. We're just
going to test it to make sure that it's
working. And then we can configure the
heartbeat in our openclaw.json. You can
see the code snippet right here to use
lama every 1 hour or every 30 minutes or
whatever, etc. Okay, so that's how
that's going to work. And let's wait for
this to finish installing. Looks like it
was. Now, you'll see that if you don't
have a GPU, it says it's going to run in
CPU only mode. That's fine. So, we'll
just run in CPU only mode. What we're
going to do now, let me just look at my
guide, is make sure Lama is running. So,
we're just going to type Lama. Okay.
Now, if Lama gives you any output, that
is good. That means it is running
properly. You can press escape to quit
out of that. And then, like I said,
we're just going to start the Olama
service and make sure that it's running.
So, we're going to copy this first
command. So, system ctl
start Olama. Okay, that's going to run O
Lama for us. We're then going to type
system enable. So, system ctl, sorry.
Okay, ctl enable. And then same thing,
Olama. Okay, perfect. And then if you
want to check the status of it, you can
run this command right here. However,
you don't need to. Okay, cool. Then
we're going to pull the model. So, let's
just separate this over here so it's a
little bit easier to see. We're going to
say llama pull llama and then this is
going to be 3.2 col 3 billion. 3 billion
by the way stands for the number of
parameters. You can install one that is
much larger than this with like 70
billion parameters but you just won't be
able to run that on CPU. Or you can but
it's going to take like forever to run
so there's no point. So we're just going
to pull this model here which I think is
like 2 GB which again is capable of
running on CPU. Okay. We're now going to
copy in the next command which is a
llama run llama 3.2 billion. And then we
just put some quoted text like respond
with only the word okay. We're going to
hit enter. And then we should see that
it runs the local model. And ideally
we're going to get the text okay. Just
give this a second to run. It says okay.
And we can see that the model is
working. So you can now ask it anything
that you want. But you'll notice that
it's going to be kind of stupid if you
ask it something like really complex
like let's say what is the capital of
Canada? And like I'm not even sure it's
going to get that correct. Uh okay it
did get that correct. So actually that's
surprising but some things it will give
you really stupid answers for but again
that's fine just because we're using it
for the local heartbeat. Okay so now
that it is installed on the server what
we need to do is go back to our
openclaw.json and we need to effectively
just copy this heartbeat snippet that I
have in the guide here and put it inside
of the default section of our agent. So
if we go back to openclaw.json I'll show
you. We have agents right and then we
have defaults. Okay now inside of
defaults make sure it's inside of
defaults otherwise it will mess up. So
you can find kind of at the bottom here.
We're going to put a comma and we're
going to put the new section which is
our heartbeat. Okay. So I'm just tabbing
this in so it's nicely formatted. And
you can see we now have the heartbeat
section again inside of the default
section. So it comes right after the
models that we have listed. We've said
we're going to use this model which is
the local model that we have access to.
Just put it session main target Slack.
This is like the channel that you would
want it to reply in. So just leave that.
And then for the prompt, briefly check
any blockers, pending tasks, or
reminders. You can change the heartbeat
prompt to be anything that you want. And
you can also just put it directly inside
of this heartbeat.md file. Okay. So
anyways, that's now going to run the
heartbeat locally. So every 1 hour it
will trigger Lama. And this is
completely free and now will not cost
you anything. Whereas before, if you had
the heartbeat enabled, it would use a
default model, load all of the context
stuff, and cost you a bunch of money. So
what we're going to do is again just
restart the gateway. So let's go back to
our restart command. Make sure that that
is running. And now we're going to move
on to the next step which is really
where we're going to get a lot of the
cost savings. All right. So next step is
to quickly add some spending limits and
then to enable the prompt caching which
again is one of the major things. So I
have another prompt here which is
related to spending limits. This is
something that we can just place inside
of the soul.md to instruct the model how
it should deal with effectively what
happens if we go over a certain amount
of money if we hit a rate limit etc. So
you can read this but I'm just going to
copy it from the guide and I'm going to
go here to VS Code. I'm going to go to
soul.md and just after the other uh what
do you call it sections here I'm going
to paste this in. Now let's read it.
Rate limits and budget rules API call
pacing minimum 5 seconds between
consecutive API calls to make sure we
don't get rate limited too quickly.
Minimum 10 seconds between web research
requests. After five web searches in a
row, pause for two full minutes. Task
batching. Group similar tasks together.
Daily spend target. You can change this
to whatever you want. $10, $20,
whatever. But notice it says at $3.75.
Notify the user before continuing at $5,
whatever. Monthly spend target, $150,
right? Same thing. And then if you hit a
rate limit, switch to the next available
model in the fallback list. Note which
model you switch to. Retry the same task
on the new model. tell the user what
happened at the end of the session.
Okay, so that if we hit a rate limit,
which is very common, it knows now how
to deal with it and it will switch to
the other model. Okay, cool. So, we're
going to get out of that and now we're
going to move to the next section, which
is to enable prompt caching. Now, I'm
just going to read this explanation, but
prompt caching lets the AI provider
reuse your system prompt. So, soul
user.md across messages in a session. So
instead of processing those files from
scratch on every single message, the
provider stores them after the first
message and reads them from the cache on
every ma message after at roughly 90%
lower cost for the cached portion. So
what this means is that there's a huge
amount of context, right, that's being
read in from OpenClaw that's being sent
to the LLM every single time. The
soul.md always being sent, right? User
MD always being sent. All of these
memory files always being sent. If we
enable caching, then as soon as we send
it one time, the next time we read it,
we effectively save, you know, 10 times
the amount that we normally would have.
So if the first, you know, cost first
run costs 10 cents, the next run only
costs 1 cent because it's cached. So
that's roughly the math. But by
implementing caching, you don't have to
do any changes. No performance
differences occur and you just
immediately save a massive amount of
money. So the way that we enable caching
here is we add this params parameter or
value inside of the model configuration
in our openclaw.json.
Now it's only worth doing this for the
models that are larger. So ones like 4.6
and sonnet 4.5 or sonnet 4.6. There's no
need to do it on something like haiku
because it's already so cheap. So you
can also change the cache. So you can go
short or long. So if you go short, it
means the cash is held for approximately
5 minutes of inactivity. So if you stop
using the model for 5 minutes, it will
clear the cash. Whereas if you use long,
it will hold it for 1 hour, which is
much better. So for these larger models,
you can go with uh long, right? And then
for the smaller models, you can go with
short. So what I'm going to do is just
show you how we would add this. But it's
very easy. And again, as soon as you add
this, you're going to see literally how
much money you save just by having the
cache. And we can actually look at how
much that costs in just a minute. So
we're going to go now back to VS Code.
We're going to go to openclaw.json.
We're going to find the models we want
to cache. So, opus is one. Notice I add
the comma here and then I paste this in
and I have cash retention long. For 4.6,
I'm going to go cash retention and then
short. Okay. And for 4.5, same thing.
We're going to go here and just make
this short. We're then going to save.
Okay. So, let's save all of that and
then go back and restart the gateway.
And there we go. We literally just added
prompt caching. Now, just to quickly
show you this here, it does cost you
some money to write to the cache as you
can see here. However, when you read
from the cache, you save a massive
amount of money on the expenses. But the
thing is, if we look at something like
Claude Haiku 4.5, it costs us so much to
write to the cache, but then it doesn't
give us that much of a benefit from $1
to10. So, what we did with Haiku is we
disabled that, but with something like
Opus and Sonnet 4.6, Sonnet 4.5, you can
see that we do value still writing to
the cache. So, you can have a look at
these and you can see the other models
too, how those work. Uh, but generally
speaking, very cool, right? and just
works well and saves us a bunch of
money. So now that we have that, I'm
just going to go right into the next uh
configuration changes here. What we're
going to do is we're going to add
context pruning. Now what context
pruning will do is as the session grows
longer, the old tool outputs and past
messages, you know, they generally
accumulate and they get sent with every
new message even when they're no longer
relevant. So what we're going to do is
we're going to prune the stale content
after the cache TTL sense for time to
live window so that it doesn't bloat our
cost. So effectively what this means is
like after in this case 55 minutes all
of the old stuff that we're no longer
using we're going to prune that so we're
not including it in the API request um
going forward or LLM request going
forward. So we save some money. Now the
way that we do that is we just add this
context pruning section inside of the
default section in our what do you call
it VS Code config. So we just go find
defaults, right? And then right below
models doesn't matter where we put it.
We can just paste it inside of here just
as a new key context pruning. And now if
we save this you can see we are good to
go. And again we just restart the
gateway and now context pruning will be
enabled and again it will start saving
us some money. So let's now go back and
we can just move to the next thing. So,
I'm not going to do this right now, but
if you want to monitor your cache
performance by after adding that, you
can add a diagnostic section into your
uh what do you call it? Open cloud.json
file. So, this should be in the base
level. So, as a sibling of agents and
commands and then I have a few other
things in here like kind of
troubleshooting that you can look at in
the guide, but generally speaking, that
should be all of the performance
optimizations you need to now save a
massive amount of money. Now, all of
this is great. However, you don't know
if any of this is working unless you run
what's referred to as a token audit,
where you actually look through and see
how many tokens you're spending and on
what. So, let me set up a quick demo so
I can show you an example of a token
audit. Okay, so I'm just asking the
agent to generate a bunch of text so I
can kind of start spending some tokens
and show you how it works. But notice if
you go to the usage tab inside of your
open clog gateway here, um you will be
able to, it does take a second usually
to load, see all of the usage that
you've had in different sessions. So, I
think I need to like filter. So, I'm
just going to press on today. And if I
do that, let's make this a little bit
larger. And you can see the number of
messages we sent, the tool calls, the
errors, the average tokens per message,
the average cost per message, in this
case 2 cents per message, the
throughput, the error rate, the cash hit
rate, all of this kind of stuff. So, you
can see right now already we're at a
99.9% cash hit rate, right? Which is
very good. And then it shows us how much
we're spending by the different token
types. We have cash rights, cash reads,
and then the total amount of output.
Now, in terms of seeing the exact cost,
it's always going to be easier if you do
that directly from the uh what is it,
the provider. But you can see that it
says we've spent 51 cents on Anthropic,
right? And we had 41 cents on Opus 4.6,
10 cents on Haiku 4.5. And you get the
idea. Okay, so you can switch between
this, see all of the usage, which is
very good. However, there's actually
even better ways to do this. Now, I just
got it to do a bunch of stuff here, but
what we can do is we can type slash and
then there's a bunch of commands that we
can run. Now the first command that we
can run is /st status. When we do that
it will actually give us a status
message which tells us what model it's
currently using, how big the context
window is, the number of compactions,
the runtime, and we can see what's going
on in the current session. So that's the
slash status command. Now there's
another command that you should be aware
of which is slashcontext and then list.
Now, what this is going to do is give
you a list of all of the different
characters and tokens that are being
used by various different files and
what's actually included in the context
that's being sent to your LLM provider
when you're sending messages. So, you
can see in workspace we have this
Bootstrap file, this Bootstrap max, the
sandbox file, whatever. And we have
agent, soul, tools, identity, user,
heartbeat, bootstrap, memory. All of
these files here have a different amount
of tokens. You can see it estimates the
amount of tokens here. And these are
being injected into all of the prompts
that you're sending to your LLM
provider. Now, it also has a skill list,
right? It has all the skills, a tool
list, tool schema, tool reads, right?
And then it shows you the total session
tokens, which is 35,786.
And the max context window is 200,000.
And then you can see that it shows you
this. And again, as I said, you can type
/ status, and it will show you the
current tokens in, tokens out, the
current cash hit rate, the context
window, all of that kind of stuff. Now,
if you want a detailed, more broken down
list, you can type /context and then
detail. And this will give you something
that's a little bit more detailed in
terms of literally everything with all
of the tokens if you really wanted to
fine-tune it. Uh, but generally, just
enabling the cache already is going to
save you a bunch of money. Now, what you
can also do, and I'm just pulling this
from another guide that I'm not giving
away for free right now, but that I'll
release later. And this is essentially a
token audit prompt that says, "Please
give me a token usage and cost audit for
this session and recent sessions.
Include current session summary, per
response breakdown, cost drivers,
historical session summary, and
recommendations." So, you can
effectively just tell it, hey, go run
all of this stuff and give me, you know,
a detailed breakdown on everything
that's going on with my actual cost and
API usage. And if you paste that in and
hit enter, it will do that for you. And
you will be able to actually see, okay,
am I spending a lot of money? You know,
how much is the usage? All of that kind
of stuff. But generally already at this
point, you should see a massive amount
of reduction in cost purely because of
the cash and also the model uh what is
it kind of switching where you're not
relying on what do you call it the super
heavy models. Now let's just quickly
have a look at what it says here, right?
Right. So it says total token inputs
38,000 total output tokens 56 context
usage cache performance estimated cost
and anyways you get the idea. You can
run this and you can kind of see how you
can modify you know what it is that
you're doing how much it's costing etc.
Now even if you want you can also just
go and per API key you can view in for
example claude openai all of the
different usage. You can see we used
$1.30. Now, that's a lot because we
didn't have all of these things
implemented. And you'll notice almost
all of the usage is from Opus, which I
switched over to and just didn't switch
back from. So, just make sure you have
the correct default model and that you
only use these super heavy models when
you actually need them, right? Which is
the whole point of having that uh what
is it? Model routing implemented. Now,
of course, there is more that you can
do, but generally speaking, you should
see a massive cost reduction by
implementing these tools. Again, the
guide is available from the link in the
description. And with that said, guys, I
think I'm going to wrap up the video
here. Again, one of the best ways to
spin up and use OpenClaw is Hostinger.
That's what I use for this video. You
can see how easy it was to get up and
running. If you guys want to get this up
and running or have multiple OpenClaw
bots, then check it out from the link in
the description and use my code tech
with Tim. I hope you guys enjoyed and I
look forward to seeing you in another
video.