Yesterday, OpenClaw did a massive update
with its 3.7 version release. And just
today, they followed that up with more
updates with this version 3.8. And
together, this is the biggest update
that OpenClaw has had since [music] its
inception, where almost 200 developers
contributed to and where you can either
browse and read through hundreds of
lines of change log updates that they
just introduced here. Or you can just
watch this video where I break down the
most critical updates where I'll explain
it simply, why it's significant, and how
you can use it in your [music] workspace
today. And if you're new here, my name
is Jay. I spent over a decade working
with brands you probably know have been
in AI since my masters in data science
and now I run our AI solutions practice
in one of the largest AI communities
globally. Let's get started.
So one interesting update it does seem
like OpenClaw is preparing itself to
release a dedicated iOS app. And from
the release notes, they included a few
screenshots here where this one appears
to be a voice feature. That basically
means when you download this
application, you can just talk to your
open claw without having to set up any
external dependencies in your Telegram
or Discord or Slack, which is pretty big
if done right. Apart from that, there's
only limited information here around
what the application could look like.
They did include this settings panel,
which is pretty standard. This is
probably a way to connect to your
OpenCloud directly using a QR code. And
finally, they included a screenshot
around an OpenCloud dashboard that
includes basic features like your
session activity and token usage. One
big update that I'm personally excited
about because I use Telegram a lot for
OpenClaw is topic routing. And what that
means to explain it simply is that if
you have one Telegram group, you can set
up different topics so that each of
those topics can route to a different
agent, to a different model, and even to
a different system prompt or set of
skills. So what this basically means is
that each topic will get its own
isolated session, its own isolated
memory and workspace, which is just
going to be easier overall in terms of
managing your agents and managing the
context within those topics. To give an
example for my setup as I was trying
this out, basically I set up a group
called AI studio with myself and my
agent Robo. And then I have these
different topics at the top. This is
general for general discussion.
Basically, you can have a topic for
content, a topic for client management,
and a topic for development. And what's
key here is that let's say you want the
content topic to be managed by let's say
Gemini 3.1 Pro, you can set that as the
default model for that group. And you
can even define the skills that will be
available in that topic, which is
incredibly important because if you work
with these agents before, we're still at
a point where if you have like 40 50
skills loaded up in just one agent, it's
quite often that your AI agent doesn't
exactly know which skill it needs to be
using. And so managing it this way, in
my opinion, is just much better. You can
also have different system prompts per
topic. So that let's say for development
you can include a base system prompt
there that is more related to coding or
more geared towards safety then that is
an option for you as well. So just to
illustrate this hey can you suggest to
me the models as well as the different
system prompts and skills that we can
assign to each of those topics so that
we can have a cleaner setup and that way
if you send it to your general agent
it'll be able to just recommend for you
the right setup for your openclaw agent
team. Then from here you can see that it
suggested a setup for me where for
general it says to use sonnet because
it's cheap and fast which I think is
actually good because this is likely
going to be used for admin purposes.
Development is opus with a
recommendation on which skills would go
there and so on and so forth. And so to
set this up all you need to do is just
set up a telegram group and convert that
into one with topics. So if you go to
the more settings here and click on
manage group here you'll be able to
click on topics and just enable that.
And by the way, if you want to learn
more about AI agents and how you can
sell it as a service, how it can
transform your business so that you're
more future ready with AI, then check
out the Robbo Nuggets community. We have
more than a thousand builders and
creators here who are all building with
AI agents. And we also have several
guided tracks and courses so that you
can get the right training to be using
these tools as part of your workflow.
The community is also what makes these
lessons possible. So check that out just
in the description below if that is
something that you're interested in.
Another key update that I think is more
important than it lets on is this piece
around post compaction sections. And
just to give you a background, when you
work with agents, every time you chat
with them, there is a piece of script or
text that is usually contained in what's
called an agents.md. For cloud code,
this is called cloud.md. For Google's
anti-gravity, this is called gemini.md.
But for openclaw, it's contained in this
agents.md. That every time you talk to
it, that piece of system prompt or text
is always injected even before you chat
to the agent. And the other thing that
is important for you to understand when
working with agents is that let's say
your agent is using Opus 4.6 as its LLM
brain. That model has a 1 million token
context window which is if you were to
imagine it is roughly the size of the
Christian Bible which basically means
that at any given point in time your
agent can think and reference about the
same amount of written content that is
as thick as that book. So it's a lot but
it can run out right and when it runs
out what your agent basically does is
undergo this method of compaction which
is just looking at that 1 million token
context text and basically just
summarizing it so that it can continue
conversing with you with that summary
context that it just compressed or
compacted. Now the problem with the
previous version is that whenever your
context gets compacted you actually
can't control which parts of your
agents.md get reloaded into that new
session. And this becomes a problem for
instances like this where this person
Summer who's actually part of the safety
and alignment team of Meta Super
Intelligence suddenly had their OpenClaw
start deleting their inbox and where she
needed to physically run to their Mac
Mini in order to turn it off. And she
had confidence that OpenClaw won't
delete her inbox because she basically
told it to confirm before acting. But
the problem is because this prompt was
sent in the very beginning most likely
when the context got compacted, this
direction was lost as well. And so her
OpenClaw AI agent at this point did not
realize that this is a command that it
should be following. And just on this
topic, I think there's two things that
you need to keep in mind for this not to
happen in your instance. The very first
thing is that right now I don't think
you should give access to OpenClaw for
your own email and probably even so in
the future because the way OpenClaw
works is it's sort of like your digital
employee, right? And if you're hiring an
employee, would you give them access to
your own email? What you would normally
do is you set them up with another email
and set them up with their own
workspace. So that that would be their
sort of isolated sandbox environment
which would just completely avoid
instances like this. And the other thing
you should remember is that if you just
message your open claw with stop or do
not do that and so on, this just gets
logged in its queue of chat messages to
action with. The right way to stop what
it's doing is to just type in back
slashs stop and you will receive this
message agent was aborted and that
immediately stops whatever it's doing.
And so with this update, what you can
now do is clearly define if let's say
you want to set a direction for it not
to send any emails without your consent.
Then what you can simply do is ask your
open claw to include that in the
sections that survive post compaction.
Now a related update that I think is
unique to open claw has to do with the
fact that it can install plugins. And
just to quickly differentiate if you're
curious what a skill is versus what a
plug-in is, a skill is basically just a
written command that tells openclaw that
you should follow these specific set of
steps in order to achieve a specific
result. But plugins are actual code that
can change how open claw behaves. And
one update that was pushed with this
recent improvement is now people can
develop plugins to manage how that
context that we just talked about is
summarized. Because in reality, there
are actually a multitude of ways by
which you can compact a 1 million token
context window. And what's great about
this update is that now you can install
plugins like this one called lossless
claw that supposedly can summarize and
compact context much better than
traditional methods. Now, I haven't
tested this one fully myself, but it is
available open source here on GitHub if
in case you want to try it out. And
finally, just on the topic of compaction
still, this update also introduced
recent turns preserved, where basically
when you exceed that 1 million token
context window, usually there's a
default number of recent messages that
survive compaction, which you cannot
edit before, but now with openclaw, you
can actually set that up and customize
yourself if in case you want more recent
messages included in that compaction.
So, it's very customizable, I think, is
the key that is happening here with
openclaw. The other major update that I
think is worth talking about is that now
OpenCloud allows you to do a full
archive backup using just one command.
So if you update to the latest 3.8
version, you can just type in openclaw
backup create to your openclaw and it
archives your configuration, your
agents, memory and workspace. And then
you can follow that up with this command
openclaw backup verify and it will just
validate that that archiving has been
properly configured. And that is
obviously very useful because if your
OpenClaw has access to your files and
you run into a scenario similar to what
we discussed earlier where it started to
just delete files in the computer it's
on like emails and such then it can also
maybe delete some of the configurations
that you didn't want it to delete or
overwrite. And so doing a full archive
backup will just let you switch back to
an older snapshot of your open claw so
that nothing gets lost. Now apart from
those major releases there are also a
few neat updates that were introduced
for this round. One is the fact that you
can now use Gemini 3.1 flash light as
one of your models and I believe GPT 5.4
is also an option now. So it gives more
flexibility on which model that you want
to use. They also upgraded the built-in
perplexity search feature in Open Claw.
Whereas before if you use perplexity
search, it just does a general search
for you. But if you want to tweak let's
say the search based on language, based
on the region, and based on a specific
time period, that's now available for
you as well. And the other big call out
for this set of updates is the massive
set of security hardening steps that
they took in order to protect your
credentials, to protect your access, and
to protect your data and execution. So
in this release for 3.7, you can see
security was mentioned 18 times across
different updates spanning API key
protection, removing token snippets from
userfacing labels such as when you type
in / status or /models, and a few
security updates for those of us who are
using VPS to host OpenClaw. And this is
quite interesting, right? Because for
this massive update, there's actually
almost 200 people who contributed to
this open source project. So no matter
if you think OpenClaw is for you or not,
you can't deny that there are committed
people who are working on this and it
probably points to the longevity of this
project as a whole. And open source
projects generally once they capture
steam and interest of a lot of people
and especially when they get support
from a particular huge entity, they
generally and eventually become
longerterm products. So Facebook's React
product is open source and that is still
being heavily used today and so is
Mozilla Firefox which was sort of the
precedented before Google Chrome took
over the browser world but Firefox is
still very active today and so this is
why I got really interested in the open
claw update because with open AAI now
indirectly supporting it plus so many
developers working on this project now
in fact if you look at this chart shared
by um from our community you can see how
quick open clause rise is just a few
months after it release that it already
exceeded attention for both Facebook
react and the Lion Nooks operating
system. I think there's still huge
potential for this space and for this
product. And even though it feels like
it's at the top of its hype cycle now, I
feel like it will actually last a longer
time than you think. But I hope that was
helpful. I'll see you guys next time.
Thank [music] you.