Today I'm going over how this strategy
got a sharp ratio of 1.21,
which is a godlike sharp ratio, and a
sortino ratio of 11.01
in out of sample data. And look at this
max draw down 9%. Incredible. And this
is an outof sample data as well.
Phenomenal. So what this actually did
was Claude worked on the strategy
overnight for me, built me a series of
different strategies, and then ranked
the top five of them. There was about 25
that it was testing overnight. And if
you're new to the channel here, I'm
using Claude to run a training engine
overnight. So, I hand off my actual
Python trading engine to Claude and then
it handles it for me overnight. And I
have previous videos where I show you
guys how to build that yourself free.
So, you can have your own system locally
to do the exact same thing. And we
already have users in the community in
the trade tactics discord who are doing
the exact same thing. So this movement,
this trading bot movement has, you know,
taken the retail trading space by storm.
There are a lot of really big firms that
have trading bots, but now retail is
coming for you guys with with actual
really good trading bots. So the free
Discord, if you want to take a look at
the progress and contribute, the link to
that Discord's down in the description.
It's free. And also if you guys feel
like it, give the video a like and
subscribe to the channel and hit the
bell notification icon if you find value
from the channel. All right, so what
exactly is this strategy? This is a
decay fractal decay strategy. And the
way that it works is it scans for price
structures of varying depth levels and
then specifies a sigma weighted decay
filter to confirm the move is real
before entering. And so that's how it
achieved this result. So the decay
period filters out old price structures
and only looks at the current period
which is incredible. This was Claude
Opus running on my machine overnight and
testing different strategy rules, price
uh strategy entries and exits and then
just created this one. This is a very
clear winner. I'm going to go through
the other four as well. So we're going
to start after this. I'll I'll just
summarize this one. We'll go more in
depth later on to the video, but I just
want to show you how it got here because
it built off of other ones. So, I want
to show you how the how Claude went
through that so that you guys can
replicate that for yourself. So, here is
the fifth place strategy and I have, you
know, a couple more that I want to get
through, but this one it looks a little
bit promising, right? We have a win rate
of 53% sharp ratio of 0.66 and the
Sortino is fairly good. This is the
swing struck. So it tracks how the
sequence of swing highs and swing lows.
So it's another one that tries to
classify market structure which is very
hard to do properly. So higher highs and
higher lows, you know, indicate an
uptrend. So it identifies that and tries
to match that where it's trading. I also
have a couple other graphs here. So we
did one, you know, rolling average
period. This is a little bit more out of
sample data. The win rate stays
confidence around 53% and it has a
pretty good total trades ratio. So, we
know that we're we're not too bad here.
And if I scroll down here, it did have a
44% max draw down. So, the testing
periods that was not as good. And then
the last one I have full out of sample,
which the last one I showed you, the
best one was uh 10% draw down or 9% draw
down. This one not good. So, when we
show this strategy completely unseen
data, it collapses, which is why we do
those those validation steps. So that's
why this one completely gets thrown in
the gutter. So we can move on from this
one here. Next up, we have the cowman
strategy. Cowman is an adaptive smoother
from aerospace engineering and it
estimates the true price by dynamically
balancing new data by its existing
estimate. So this was the third one.
This this came third uh overnight and
this was out of over 25 that it ran on
my system while I was sleeping. So, I
kind of gave some guidelines to what
Claude Opus could do overnight and I
just wanted it to compete. I wanted it
to rank its previous best strategy and
then try to beat those benchmarks. So,
the benchmarks it had to beat were here.
Here's the insample data. This you're
looking at the out of sample here with
uh the low draw down. Here it is. So,
I've I've relaunched it just just wanted
to get the accurate calman. So, here are
the parameters that it found. This was
the winning formula. you know performed
the best in the training data and we
have some testing data. So this is the
first out of sample data and I have
multiple out of sample pieces of data
that I will show it. So this is the out
of sample data that Claude can see and
it wants. So there's here here's here's
a general structure. This is how I got
it locked down to make sure that it's
robust. So I have insample data. This is
the the data that my engine sees. This
first chart here and these are the
candlesticks from 2020 all the way to
2023 in February. So that's the uh
claude and my engine can see this and
then the the engine can't see this data.
This is the out of sample data and it's
not selecting you know these parameters
this parameter set based off this. So
it's going in blind but my claude can
see this data. So claude can rank this
and and say okay we have you know a win
rate of 49% the sharp ratio is 0.3
sortino ratio is 0.75.
What do we think about this? And this
was, you know, out of all 25 strategies,
this one came in around third. And then
there's one last uh out of sample data
point. And these are for all of the
strategies that I've built, by the way.
Just the whole process for how I ensure
that it's building strategies that are
robust. I have true out of sample data.
And this is data that neither my engine
or Claude can see. Which means that if
you know Claude approved the strategy, I
go in and I verify okay well you
approved the other numbers from these
two other charts but this last chart
here is where I'm verifying and the
sharp ratio continued to come down which
is it is expected in out of sample that
you're you're going to have some
distortion between you know the win rate
before was over 50% now we're below 50%
so it's gotten slightly worse there was
some decay there which is fine uh but
this 46 47% draw down is not fine. that
is too high, especially when you know
there's this strategy here doesn't look
like it's a clear up all the way through
and yeah there's there's just there's
just not enough consistent results. Plus
buy and hold was you know 700% in that
period. So I'm comparing to that you
know 27%. Not good. So moving on and
here is the next one. This one looked
very promising. 14% draw down in the
training data. This is the first one
that both Claude and my trading engine
can see. So it wants to make these
numbers, it wants to make this draw
number the lowest and it wants to make
this sharp ratio the highest. Those are
the two variables that I'm optimizing
for. I'm not optimizing for net profit.
So if the engine sees a higher net
profit, it doesn't necessarily select
for that. So let's say candle momentum.
The way that this strategy works is it
looks for candles like three green
candles in a row or like three three
bullish a bullish pattern or a bearish
pattern and it enters in that direction
once we have confirmation. So this
strategy was a little bit better. Win
rate 47%. Uh which is manageable as long
as the uh risk ratio is high enough and
you know that's a pretty good net
profit. Now the next thing we need to
see this is the one that we the the
engine and claude we're looking to
optimize the draw down trying to get
this number low. Now the one that the
engine can't see but Claude can is the
second one. So this is a second data
set. So 2020 to 2023. And now we come to
the 2024 data all the way to 2025 in
March. So net profit is 127. The win
rate came down and the sharp ratio and
certino come down a little bit as well.
What does that mean? Well, it it means
that out of sample it's it's having a
little starting to have a little bit of
trouble, but you know the true the last
test is the the one where I actually
determine it. So let's look at the
metrics here in the out of sample or the
testing uh sample and the win rate. Yep.
40% and max draw down came up 50 53%. So
that's you can see there's a period of
draw down here. That's what that's
looking at the and so the engine is not
liking this period specifically here.
And you know if we unpacked why we could
probably go in and see if we could add
anything to this to supplement the rules
to kind of make figure out how it was
weak in that area. It looks pretty
strong everywhere else just in this one
period. A little bit weak, but it's
worth doing that or not. depends on the
final chart the sample out of s the the
final test which this is 2025 data from
March all the way to the present moment
and it I mean it's profitable it's 268%
it's just that there's 56% draw down
right this period here once we started
out did not do so well so it was coming
down having a really rough time until
here and then one big trade that's it is
kind of a red flag most of this net
profit is coming from this trade which
could have just been a fluke we don't
want we want consist consistency. We
want to have, you know, a a big enough
sample size and, you know, consistent
enough win rate as well. Sharp ratio
should be higher. So, in here, it's hard
to say. Look, this is the draw down
graph here. You can kind of see this net
profit visualized here. This is the the
draw down graph. Really high draw down
here. Came down there or 56. So, that is
a little the strategy is a little bit
stubborn. Little bit stubborn. So, let's
go to our last strategy here and we'll
do the exact same process. So the Q sum
strategy it is a this is a statistical
method that it accumulates deviations of
returns by their name and then when the
sum exceeds a threshold it signals a
regime change. So the market you know
shifted from noise to a trend. So that's
when it will actually enter. So
inherently to this there is a little bit
of a flat filter and so it it man it
manufactures its own kind of quality
control as well as its own directional.
So this is what claude opus found uh 51%
draw down right away in the in this
right. So this was the la the the last
place uh for our trades. So I'll just
quickly go through this one. This one
was not. So this will be quick but yeah
sharp ratio in a training data. Let's
see here. Was that the out of sample?
Yeah. Sorry sorry sorry about that. I
showed the out of sample first but yeah
this is the this is the Q sum strategy.
So 24% and this graph looks pretty good
right? 51% win rate. Now, if you were
just trading on Trading View and you saw
a graph like this, you know, you open up
your Trading View or which whichever
trading program that you use and you
have a chart that looks this good, it's
you might think it's tradable. You might
you might actually consider putting real
money on the line here. But let's go to
the first out of sample. Now, this is
the one again, this data, see how it
gets way like slightly more choppy.
There's still an uptrend. Let's go back.
Look how smooth that first trending
curve was. Really smooth, right? And as
soon as the engine stops looking and
then it just you know validates that
this these same parameters on future
data without adjusting these or anything
else you know so hands off the engine
just keeps everything constant and then
introduces new data things get a little
bit more choppy watch this and chop just
appears so that's not good and I think
this is around 60% draw down I could
scroll down and and and see that yeah
59% max draw down not what you want to
see so right away this is ruled out
right um it looks good from the training
data and of course I already showed you
guys the out of sample data and this is
where claude opus and my engine claopus
just you know proves it and doesn't even
look at this data set only I look at
this data set final conf to remove bias
completely so that the AI the AI can
introduce bias to be clear the AI will
select things that look good in the
training data and if you show claude all
your data claude will be select uh with
a bias which you want to remove so yeah
this completely garbage once you see
this engine run or this specifically Q
sum strategy run on out of sample data.
It's garbage, right? So, let's go to our
god tier strategy. This is this is the
one that we got and this is our winner
of the day. I'm going to show you first.
This is actually out of sample. So, this
is the one that Claude did not look at
and the engine could not look at. That's
how I know that this is a clear winner
with this strategy. Fractal depth 5
decay period 24. It picked these
parameters on the training data. So,
let's go look at the training data. And
to be clear, there's also bootstrapping.
We randomize the candlesticks to make
sure that for all of these here that it
it'll hold up if we jumble up the
candlesticks to make sure that there's
no patterns that we're curve fitting for
or anything like that. And 28% draw down
on just the main data set which is again
um you wouldn't think that would be
good. And of course from here this is
just the beginning entry of the
strategy. You can add you know regime
filters and to try to filter out bad
trades from here to get that better and
and more optimized. And then from here,
assuming we accept this strategy, let's
go through to the testing data. This is
the data that Claude Opus could see, but
our trading engine just put forward the
parameters. And there you have it. Look
at that. Nice really nice graph. That's
how it should look. And the draw down
was around 24% in the just the out of
sample testing data. And none of all of
all of the strategies run on the same
coin. This is Salana 1 hour chart. And
so why does it look so good on this
final graph? It looks amazing. 9% draw
down sharp ratio of 1.21. That is a
godly sharp ratio. And we know that this
isn't curve fitted because we've done a
robustness checks out of sample walk
forward. We've done bootstrapping on it.
We've done all of these all of the
rigorous tests and then we get a certino
of 11. So that's really good. Now we're
not done, right? This is promising, but
it's not if you're really serious about
trusting your bot with a live account,
you would want this algorithm. I would
ask my claude, okay, tune this on
different time periods. This is the
Salana 1 hour chart. Can it perform on
the 30 minute chart? Can it perform on
different coin pairs? That's important,
too. Other coin pairs, making sure that
your engine is flexible, that your
strategy has an edge. Maybe not just
maybe it is just good on this one coin,
Salana, and this strategy only works on
Salana, but you know, the chances go up
that is it has general robustness.
That's a key word. General robustness
means that it can apply more broadly,
not just to one coin. Or let's say that
you have a strategy that only works on
gold or only works on NQ future or only
works on a certain forex in a certain
time period. Well, that means that it's
going to alpha alpha decay quicker,
meaning that it's your strategy will be
obsolete faster. If your strategy is
more robust, then it will last longer.
It'll you can put it on different assets
and it'll work and it'll work for a
longer period. Now, a a strategy is
never they won't last forever. But one
of the things that is important, one of
the things that I hear a lot is that,
you know, trading bots, uh, you just
don't have a chance. It's hopeless
because the market's already rigged or
there's already so many algorithms in it
and clustered. Well, guess what? If you
make a better algorithm, your algorithm
can overshadow other algorithms. So,
that's what we're doing. We're looking
at real price data all the way up until
the current day, 2026, when I'm filming
this video, and we are still having
these really good results. So, this is
promising. Now, we could take this, we
can add more regime filters, we could
add proper take profits, right? Dynamic
customized profits. And I can ask my
claw to do that tonight. I'll I'll be
doing that later this week for sure. And
so, follow along and subscribe if you
want to see updates how I how I build
this if I ever release a strategy. But
this is the process. This is how uh I'm
just showing you guys transparently how
I operate. And this is this is how it's
done. So, from here, yeah, it's in it
right now. It's in Python. I can add to
it. And then if I really like it, I can
take it, customize it. I could trade
with it directly in Python or convert it
to MT5 or into Pinecript so I can trade
it on Trading View for example. But what
I what I probably will do if this is
good if it pans out in real world
trading is I you guys know I have the
marketplace signal swap marketplace that
I'm a I was a developer for and we have
an amazing marketplace that uses real
world for tested data as well as it uses
stress testing. So this uh if this if
this works then you'll see it on this
one on the single swap marketplace. So,
I'll put it up there. And if you guys
want to list anything on the Signal Swap
marketplace, if you have a good bot, or
if you want to find a good bot, then
sign up for Signal Swap. It's free to
join, free to use, and you can, you
know, you can list on the Signal Swap
marketplace, and you could price it the
way that you want and get 70% the
revenue from the vast majority of the
revenue from the bot that you create.
So, going back to this other strategy
here, the one as soon as you see the out
assembled data looking really bad,
that's how you know that it's
curfeitted. This strategy was curve
fitted to the original data. Going back
here to the the original training data.
Looks looks promising, right? Really
good. But it's curve fitted. And this is
a tool that you should use. Everyone has
to use this. Whether you're trying to
tune your strategy in Trading View or
not, you have to test if it's fitted.
Otherwise, you're you're going to lose
money and nobody teaches you this. So,
thank you for following along on this
video. And if you're looking for good
strategy ideas, you can always join, you
know, the free Discord. There's tons of
strategy come out and you can test them
for yourself for robustness. You know,
there's this one here, 70 to 80% win
rate on many crypto pairs, and you can
test if you get a bit a breakthrough on
them and and make sure that you thank
the creators of them. They're they're
open source. And so, I just wanted to
thank you for watching this far in the
video, for liking, subscribing, and if
you have any questions, you made it this
far, then comment down below any
questions you have, and I'll I'll do my
best to answer all of I'll see you in
the