When you visit my blog on the internet,
you're actually connecting to a
container that's running on the
Kubernetes cluster that I run at home in
my home lab. Now, what if I told you
that it's not just the container that's
running there, it's also all of the
source code, all of the CI/CD pipelines,
and everything that's needed to run this
blog is also being run on that same
Kubernetes cluster. And in this video,
I'm going to show you why I don't need
GitHub anymore in order to build and
host my blog all on my own home lab. So,
let's jump in. So, the tool I'm using
for this is called ForJo, which is a
self-hosted Git server. Now, if you're
watching this video, it's likely that
you're aware of Git and GitHub, but I
just want to make sure everyone is on
the same page. So, I'll just briefly
explain what this is all about. Now many
people don't know this but GitHub is not
the same as Git. Git is the actual
version control system which is created
by Linus Torvaltz the creator of Linux
and Git is used to manage the versioning
of files. So if you have people working
on the same files you need a way of
tracking what things have changed in
those files. Especially if you're
working on the same file with whole
teams of people, it becomes very
important that you have a good system in
place for this to make sure that all of
these changes can actually be
implemented. Right? So one of the best
examples for this is actually the Linux
source code which is on GitHub. Now a
project where you use git is usually
contained in one directory and this is
called a repository. So a git repository
is a collection of files that uses git
for version control. Now you need to
place this repository somewhere right
and in this case or many cases it is
GitHub. GitHub is basically a place to
put your Git repositories and that is
basically all that is what it does. Now
for example the Linux source code is
hosted on GitHub. You can go in and read
the code here and you can also look at
the commits. So a commit to a git repo
is when someone makes a change and then
um for example here are the changes in
the code which are being managed by git
in the version control. So here you have
a record of everything that has been
changed by whom and you can always go
back to a previous commit for example so
that you can you can you can you know
revert your changes or you can actually
know exactly what was changed and when.
So you can see in real time what is
being changed in the Linux kernel. Now
for example GitHub is then a Microsoft
owned company that provides a service
where you can put these git
repositories. Now what forjo does is it
provides you with your own GitHub. Okay,
it provides you with a place where you
can host your own self-hosted git
repositories. And that is what I did. So
for example, my blog, all of this source
code lives in a repository on my own
self-hosted git instance. So whenever I
publish a blog now, the code is actually
being committed to my own repository and
not to GitHub anymore. So why would you
even bother with this? Why does anyone
need to have their own self-hosted Git
instance? But before we continue, about
73% of my viewers aren't subscribed. So
please subscribe. It helps me put out
more honest content like this every
single week, and it's a completely free
way to support my channel. So, everybody
knows that AI models are really good at
writing code, right? That's one of the
things that they're best at. Now, where
do you think all of this code came from?
All of this code was gathered from
places like Stack Overflow, but also
GitHub. So, Microsoft, who owns GitHub,
scans all of the code that is being
published on GitHub, and then they're
taking that to train the models, etc.
And I don't think there's necessarily
anything wrong with that. However, if
there are things that I am developing
myself that I don't necessarily want to
share with others, I want to keep that
in my own git repositories. Right? So if
you're using this service, you're
basically agreeing that they can use
that data. and I I have certain
projects, private projects, for example,
my own note-taking system that I don't
want Microsoft to have and I don't want
them to scan that. So, this is the
reason why I deployed my own self-hosted
git instance. Now, let's take a look at
my git instance. So, this for example is
my blog repo. So, you can see it has a
very nice UI where I can just check out
all of the changes I made. It has these
um commit changes for example. So, if I
check the overview over here, you will
see all of the changes I've made here.
For example, I changed a an image that I
um that that went wrong. So, I had to to
change the code for this image. It has a
very nice UI for this. So, and it also
supports pull requests. So, there's the
full normal pull request workflow that
you might be used to when using GitHub.
it it really feels almost the same as
running GitHub. The second thing is that
for Jio also provides you with your own
self-hosted actions runner. In other
words, your self-hosted CI/CD pipeline.
So when I commit some code to my blog
here, then a set of automations are
going to take place and I'm going to
demonstrate this in a second. But these
are then going to take my code, build it
into a container image and deploy it to
my Kubernetes cluster. And all of this
is running on my own infrastructure. So
if you have an open-source project or
GitHub, it is for free. You can you can
store it for free and you can use GitHub
actions for free. However, if you have
your private repos, first of all, your
code is going to be scanned, but also
it's a bit limited what you can do with
the free GitHub actions. Okay. So I am I
have completely unlimited um CI/CD
pipelines now because I'm running them
on my own infrastructure. Now one
interesting thing is that you are
actually able to self-host your GitHub
actions on your own infrastructure. So
you can use GitHub and use those runners
on your own infrastructure. But
recently, Microsoft made a big mistake
where they announced that they were
going to charge you for the self-hosted
GitHub runners as well. They published
this on the 15th of December. They
announced the pricing changes for GitHub
actions. And uh that what this led to a
huge backlash on social media and X was
completely on fire about this. So they
wanted to charge you for running stuff
on your own infrastructure and that did
not sit well with the community and as
you see in the in the announcement now
here they're saying TLDDR we're
postponing the announced billing change
uh to take time to reevaluate the
approach. So they actually came back and
reverse that price change. So they they
lost some phase there. Um so even though
um you can still do it for free, there
are changes coming. So this is also
another catalyst. I actually had already
deployed for JO at that point but um
this was actually a catalyst for me
knowing that okay I I did the right
thing here by going the self-hosted way
and hosting my own git server. Now
another really cool feature of 4Jo is
that you can mirror git repos to your
own infrastructure. So for example there
is this UB key guide that is a public
git repo on GitHub but you can set this
up as a mirror. So every day my forjio
instance is going to check a se certain
amount of repos that I configured and
it's going to mirror those repos to my
own infrastructure. So if the owner of
this repository in in this case the the
UB key guide if the owner for some
reason decides to take that repository
down I will always have my own copy of
that repo on my own infrastructure. So I
don't know if you've experienced this
but there have been several projects
that I really liked that were taken
offline. So sometimes companies sue open
source projects and force them to take
the code down. Well, in the case that
happens, I will always have my own copy,
including all of the commit history. And
note, this includes the full commit
history. Okay? So, I have the full
history of the repository available to
me on my own self-hosted infrastructure.
So, I always have a copy of the source
code on my own infrastructure and I can
keep developing on it if I want to. Now,
when I decided to self-host my own git
server, there were a few alternatives
that I considered. One of them is
GitLab. that is actually the most
obvious one. This is a alternative to
GitHub which is used a lot in enterprise
as well and I I kind of lean towards
this one because it would also give me
um experience with GitLab and in fact I
worked with GitLab in my first DevOps
job. We were running our own self-hosted
GitLab instances. So in that sense it
made sense for me to continue with that.
But GitLab is quite advanced to host. It
involves a lot of things especially if
you're hosting it on Kubernetes and
frankly for my own use case I was a
little bit too much. It was a very much
overkill. And then the second one that
that I considered was Gy. Now, gy
there's I don't think there's anything
wrong with it. But Gy used to be an
open-source free project which was then
acquired by a company which now has
offered a SAS version of this as well.
So you can still run it for free. It's
still open source. So there's nothing
wrong with that in that sense. But there
was a huge row about this when the the
the project was acquired and actually it
was forked by a group of people who then
started forj and the reason why I then
chose for Jio is because they actually
say it's a guaranteed 100% free software
forever. So when Gy was acquired, it was
forked and a group of people went with
it and basically created an open-source
project which is completely guaranteed
100% free and open source forever and
this resonated with me and I decided I
wanted to support this project as well.
And what's really cool about this is if
you if you're aware of codeberg, which
is basically a free and open- source
alternative to GitHub, well, Codeberg is
actually being run on forj. So they're
using 4Jo to provide this Git instance.
And I thought this was really cool. So
Codeberg is basically a big middle
finger to GitHub and the big
corporations because they provide a
nonprofit community-led open-source
alternative to them and they are using
forjo to run this. So I think this is
very admirable and I I think they
deserve all the support they they can
get. So I actually donate money to 4JO
every single month because I think it's
such a good project. It works really
well. And also because of their
commitment to being guaranteed 100% free
and open source, I think they deserve
all of the support they can get. And
just to be clear, I am not affiliated
with them, but I just want to use my
audience and my reach to expose as many
people as possible to this wonderful
project because they deserve all of the
support that they can get. And another
interesting thing about forj and which
also influenced my choice is because the
enterprise and government world is also
showing interest in this now. So there
is a discussion here on the official
forj repo where someone working in a
Dutch government actually expressed
interest that the Dutch government is
interested in using forjo. So I think if
you are uh someone who is oriented
towards open-source software also in
your career which I think is a very good
thing to do um I think forjjo will be a
good choice to learn. So to get started
with forj is actually super easy if you
just want to quickly try it out. You
just go to the installation guide in the
documentation and here they have some
installation instructions to um install
it with docker. And this is what I
recommend you do just to get started
with it and to try it out and then when
you have when you like the thing then
you can actually start moving it towards
your server. So on my machine here I'm
I'm running podman. So the command I'm
going to run here is podman run in
detached mode name for j and then we're
going to expose port 3000 and 2222 for
the ssh connection and we're going to
give it a volume as well. So if I run
this, it's going to start the 4Jo
container. And if I then go to localhost
3000,
I'm now connected to my fresh forj
instance.
So you can just accept the default
settings here and install forj. And you
have to uncheck this box. And when you
then install forj like this, it is now
going to load up. And there we go. We
can now log in. And that's how easy it
is to get started with for JO. Now, when
you've done this, you already have your
self-hosted git instance. Like you you
literally don't need more to get
started. But let's also look at the
self-hosted actions component of this.
So I am now on the on the CLI, I have
prepared a test blog post. So if I now
run my publish command, it is actually
going to commit the changes to the repo
and then it's going to trigger the build
and watch it run. So if I go to my blog
repo now, we'll see that the a git
commit has been has appeared now and
this also triggered an action which is
now running. So as we speak, this is now
running on my own kubernetes cluster at
home. it is going to check out the repo
and it's going to take check out the
code build that code into a container
image and then git ops is going to pull
in that change into my kubernetes
cluster. So now we see it is now going
to build the image and after it is
finished building this image it's also
going to push it to my own container
registry also provided by 4j. So the
whole software pipeline from hosting the
code to building the code and I'm I'm
not currently testing this code but I
could test it. I can do everything that
I normally do in a CI/CD pipeline in
these actions and this action runner is
running on my own Kubernetes cluster. So
if I go to my home lab now and if I
open up K9s
then if I search for for 4Jo then we'll
see there is a 4J runner which is now
actually running this process as we
speak. Okay, this is now running on my
uh on my home lab cluster.
It is building the image and now it has
pushed the image. So the changes are
pulled to my cluster and if I then
refresh my blog here, we see that there
is a test post here for my demo
purposes. So this was just added as a
demo. I'm going to be deleting this
after the after I finish recording this
video. But here you see that I have
committed code to a repository running
on my own infrastructure and then I'm
building this code and then I'm serving
that container image all from my own
Kubernetes home lab. And I'm doing this
on my own complete sovereign
infrastructure. So for JJO is a great
project. I really recommend you look
into it. It's really easy to get started
with Docker. But if you are running a
Kubernetes home lab and you also want to
run forj on Kubernetes, then I have all
of the source code available here. I
have the manifest already written out.
And I spent a lot of time on this
because it's actually really tricky to
get it running with a self-hosted runner
on Kubernetes. And if you want to get
all of these manifests so you can start
running forj on your Kubernetes cluster,
you can check out the link below and get
it all for free. Now, let me know in the
comments if you're going to try out
forjo. Let me know what you think. Make
sure to subscribe and I'll see you in
the next