Well, welcome to today's qualified at
the intersection. I figured I should do
a video as a proof of life. Um, because
I've been out and about. I was in
Washington DC last week. I had the great
honor of presenting uh findings from my
book, Qualified: How Competency Checking
and Race Collide at Work at the Library
of Congress. Thanks to my good friend,
Congresswoman uh Janelle Binham, who
represents Oregon. Uh there were other
black congressional uh leaders uh there
and it was a really great event. Um
there were so many things that came out
of it, but one of the things that is
urgent as we are in Women's History
Month is um Representative Ayana Presley
said something at the event that really
stuck with me. Uh the unemployment rate
uh for black women that we are being
told is 7.4%.
And I say we are being told because I
think all of us know at this point that
we really can't trust anything this
administration says. Uh when the Bureau
of Labor Statistics uh woman was fired
for giving accurate information about
the lack of jobs, um we knew that uh
going forward it was really going to be
unclear what the data was telling us.
And now, even with them firing her, we
find out just the other day that the
country actually lost negative 92,000
jobs. There's there's been negative job
growth since Donald Trump took office.
And this is a incredibly under
reportported story. But what Rep.
Presley said that was so uh you know
really ticked something for me is that
the reported figures of unemployment for
white people in the United States and I
say that because we just don't know if
they're true but the reported figures
are 4.4% 4%. I think for white women
it's like 3.5% or something like that
for unemployment. So relatively low. But
the unemployment numbers for black
people at large are just under 8% and
for black women are like 7.4%. So double
what they are the stated numbers. And R.
Presley said, "If this was the numbers
for the overall economy, we would be in
a recession and everybody would be
running around like chickens with their
heads cut off because oh my gosh, the
severity of these job losses." But there
is essentially a black recession going
on and no one is discussing it. No one.
And um the specifics of our unemployment
are much higher than other demographic
groups, higher than other racial groups.
And you know, black women sit at this uh
intersection of racism,
well, it's more than intersection,
racism, anti-lack bias, specifically
sexism, and agism. And that's because it
takes black women much longer. It takes
black people, but it takes black women
much longer to get promoted. So, by the
time they get to the point that people
will even consider you for promotion,
you're much older than your peers. So
you got anti-black bias, general racism,
sexism, and agism. And you know, we are
at a point in black America where we
need to raise the alarm. We are in a
recession as black people in this
country given our unemployment numbers
and given the fact that the ability to
get another job in an economy that is
negative job creation is going to make
those numbers go up. And that means
economic slippage. And and the issue is
as we consider this is women's history
month when black women are unemployed or
undermployed it has a devastating impact
on the family. I talk about this in my
book because black women tend to be
equal economic partners with their
romantic partner. So they tend to um
especially those who are in uh
relationships with a man, their their
economics seem to be much closer than
white women and white men where white
men traditionally out earn white women
in their relationships. But this is
traditional is in every relationship.
But when black women lose economic
standing, it has a much more profound
impact on generational wealth, on family
stability. So there are layers to this,
right? And as we talk about, you know,
the state of women, women overall,
white, black are the majority of people
in poverty. Women overall are the people
who are utilizing the majority of public
assistance. And yet we ignore this
specific uh demographic. You know, it's
interesting. There was all this
conversation recently about young boys
and men, what they need, what their
problem is, how they don't have this and
that. Women are out here struggling
every day. Every day. And no one their
answer to women is get married to a man.
[laughter]
That's their answer. That's their answer
to what ails uh women. But for black
women, black women are traditionally,
and this goes back to slavery.
Everything goes back to slavery. Black
women have always been equal
participants in the work enterprise in
their family lives and um in cases where
they are the heads of household
obviously they are the primary bread
winner in their households. So we are in
a situation where if you have black
women at recession level unemployment
and you have an economy that is negative
job growth, we have the perfect storm to
lose not only uh historical ground but
immediate ground. That means people
dipping into their 401ks. That means
people unable to sustain themselves
having to go on public assistance or
having to work multiple jobs. And we
know already that black women suffer
from an extreme amount of stress as it
relates to race and racism. As I said at
at uh the talk in DC, you know, yes, it
may be true that black doesn't crack
from the outside, but it's a shambles on
the inside. Black women with heart
disease, with high blood pressure, uh
that kind of stress and anxiety of of
shouldering all that burden is is
killing black women from the inside out,
right? And so as we talk about
International Women's Day, we cannot let
it slide that the black community in
general, but black women specifically
are in a recession. And we are in an
emergency situation. A situation that if
it was white men, this country would be
oh my gosh, everybody would be going
bananas with this level of job loss. And
and I need to say this, if white job
loss ticks up, our job loss moves to
historic levels because we generally
track double the rate of unemployment
for uh for white people. And this is
historical and this is specifically
related to anti-black bias. And we do
have to say that out loud. I I am not in
any way degrading the fact that
immigrant communities um Asian Latinx
communities have serious real
challenges. In fact, I talk about the
fact that during COVID we saw a huge
jump in AsianAmerican unemployment up to
8% which is wild because historically
unemployment numbers for AsianAmericans
is historically low like in the 2%
range. So that jump was directly tied to
the anti-
uh Asian bias and the conversations
Donald Trump was having in his first
term accusing you know Asian people of
having COVID and all this stuff. There
was that unemployment number was
directly tied to that. And what we're
seeing today is this anti-dei
anti- uh you know unequitable diverse
society that is having a direct impact
on black unemployment at historical
levels. And this is unspoken and we have
to say it because black women are are in
a trick bag. They are in a really
complicated situation right now with an
economy that is not making jobs with a
hostility to their presence and without
support. And you know in the workplace
we are seeing a resurgence of problem.
There was a a issue that came out of I
it's the South, I want to say Georgia,
but it could have been Memphis, where uh
black workers at a uh cemetery were
being forced to use a separate bathroom
and not being told and sent across the
street because there was some
construction going on, but white workers
were given a key to the a specific
bathroom. And and so one of the things
one of my charges to our legislative
folks and you know Congress people like
James Telerico who just won his race. We
cannot seed the culture war because let
me tell you something Donald Trump has
won because of a culture war. [snorts]
He is going back to culture wars. The
war is engaged. The battlefield is
moving and we are losing ground. And if
anybody doesn't think this anti-dei
rhetoric is impacting black people, then
you're just you are then engaging in
anti-black bias because black people are
suffering uniquely in this situation
financially, economically, emotionally.
And there is no recognition of that,
right? It's just all, you know, kind of
washed over or we just need to focus on
economics for affordability. Well, okay.
But there, you know, I've often talked
about this like triage, like when you
triage at a hospital. There's a
difference, my dear, between a gunshot
wound and um a broken arm. And black
folks are suffering from gunshot wounds
and being told to wait in line behind
people with broken arms. That is not
triaging. We are in a serious situation
economically and really we are entering
a significant black recession. And then
we are looking at people who are feeling
emboldened like this case at the
cemetery to reinstate Jim Crow life
policies. These are all predictable
consequences of our situation. Things
that I spoke about coming to pass that I
do not feel good to have come to pass.
But we have to talk about this. We
cannot ignore it. We are we are in a a
10 alarm fire and and and we need to say
that out loud. So, I wanted to, you
know, for International Women's Day,
which was yesterday, but to note that
and to talk about the state of black
women and um also just to say on my trip
to DC, I have to say it was definitely
strange because I had lived in DC a long
long time ago and the city felt way less
vibrant. And maybe it's the weather, I
don't know, it's March. Um but it felt
way less vibrant. there were um uh you
know national guards people walking
around which gives this militaristic
feel. Um, and you know when you're
there, you're looking around, you're
like, "Oh, this person might be MAGA.
This person is MAGA." You know, it's
when when the when the government
changes, the character of the city
changes, right? And you do have that
feeling of being in a hostile occupied
place. At least that's how I felt. Um
and yet there was the warmth of uh the
women who uh brought me to uh the leg
the library of congress which includes
the congressional black caucus and their
sjourer
uh project which is named after sirjer
truth and it's their women's history
event. So I was at the same time
surrounded by the support of black women
and black women's supporters. My my
agent both my speaking agent my book
agent. I had the ability to sign my book
for a hundredyear-old beautiful uh black
woman who was a mathematician in her day
who looked at my book and said, "Oh, I
could tell you stories about this." And
you know, and so it was, you know, it's
it's my life. It's a tale of two cities,
right? The best of times, the worst of
times. And so I really appreciate that
opportunity, but um I am I am sending
out this alarm that we are in a
recession as black people and black
women are bearing the brunt of it. And
um we don't even know if these numbers
are true, which is scary. You know, uh
if the economy is creating negative jobs
minus 92,000 jobs and and we know that
the woman who gave the true numbers was
fired, that number could be double that.
We don't actually know. You know, it's
really like we are in a 747 and there's
no autopilot and there's no pilot. You
know, we are just flying and until the
the plane hits the ground is when we're
going to know we're in trouble. You
know, and economically, these types of
things frequently have a devastating
impact on African-Americans in a unique
way due to the impact of anti-black
bias. And so I'm raising the alarm on on
on this day after International Women's
Day. Um, and I'm also just raising the
alarm because it needs to be spoken out
loud. Um, and that, you know, we need
help and we need a strategic plan and we
need we need our elected officials to
not run from the fight that others have
already engaged. We need to explain to
people that a diverse, equitable,
inclusive society benefits us all. We
are losing talent, treasure,
intelligence from this country because
of this administration. We're losing
businesses and and growth and
opportunity. I mean, this is serious
business and it's devastating. And
changing interest rates is is not going
to change that. So, um so this is my
proof of life. We'll be back at it every
day with our daily newsletter now that
I'm kind of recovered and have some
other stuff under my belt. So, look
forward to chatting again soon.