Usually, when you see best-selling
products like these making tens of
thousands of dollars a month, you think
that you need to be a professional and
have a lot of skills in order to hit
those numbers. But because AI is so
powerful now, anyone with hustle and
drive can build a thriving online
business selling similar products. With
these products, all you need to do is
use AI to create the design and another
company will handle all of the printing,
shipping, everything for you so that you
can keep the profit. To come up with our
niche idea, we're going to use AI. Now,
you could either use Chat GBT or Claude,
but I'll be using Claude. These all have
free plans, so I'll put the link in the
description so you can follow along with
me. I'm going to put the prompt on the
screen. The AI is going to give us
various different micro niches that have
the highest chance of being underserved
and unsaturated. So, for example, night
shift nurses or women in skilled trades
like female electricians, ADHD adults,
parents of kids with rare diseases. Now,
not all of this is going to apply to you
obviously, but if you want to get better
results, then I would just enter in your
own kind of experiences or your own
interests. When you input your
experiences, it doesn't matter how big
or how small they are. For example, I
said using my air fryer or decorating my
place for cheap. And then the AI is
going to sift through your ideas and
find the best ones. It even tells you,
hey, these are the things that you
should skip for print on demand
specifically. Then when I have a niche
idea, I can take my idea, for example,
digital nomad living abroad, and I can
say something like nomad t-shirt. We are
then going to find what are the best
sellers here. I'm going to click on show
filters. I'm going to go stareller. And
then up in the top it says, is stareller
true? I want you to replace star with
best. Okay? And then press enter. Now
you can see all the items that are best
sellers. What you can do from here is
just screenshot the designs that are
like the top eight. So I'm just zooming
out of my browser and then I am
screenshotting these top sellers. I'll
then take the screenshot and I'll go to
Claude and this is the prompt that I'm
going to use. This will all be in the
description to use, but I'm just saying,
hey, can you analyze the design images
and break down why they are selling?
Well, what people usually say is like,
oh, just find a bestseller and like copy
it and change up the font or whatever,
but if you do that, you're always going
to be searching for the next best thing
rather than creating it yourself. This
way when we break down the actual design
and the logic that got the best sellers
to where they were, we can then create a
design that is different enough but
still has all the factors to succeed. So
it tells us every reason. Okay, this is
triggering emotional nostalgia. That
might be something we want to go off of.
And it's giving us the underlying
formula. This is how you reverse
engineer what is going to be successful.
And now we have our 15 original product
concepts and they're formatted in a way
that we could just copy and paste this
and put them into our image generator
platform. We have 15 ideas to start with
so that we're not just starting from
scratch. So I'm going to copy this. I'm
going to head to gemini.google.com.
The link will be in the description for
that. And then I will just paste my
prompt here and I'll click on create
image. Now, this is where we're using
Nano Banana 2. Only thing I would do is
just add the dimension. So, it's going
to be 3600 by 4,800 and then click on
submit. These are just some of the
examples that the AI created, but really
you can generate anything. I suggest
just using these as a starting point and
then using your creativity to really go
along from there. To download our
images, just click on the three dots and
then click on download image. The
designs look so amazing right now, but a
lot of you are going to make the mistake
of rushing to put this on Etsy or
something like that. Well, that's what I
did when I first got started, too. And I
did make sales, but if you really want
to hit those big numbers, and I would
suggest having your own website, this is
because there's new sellers wanting to
throw up AI designs on Etsy every single
day. And Etsy is ruthless, guys. It
would rather promote designs that are
already selling than take a chance on
new sellers and their customers
potentially not liking it. So, I want to
show you how to get your store set up in
less than 10 minutes. We'll be using a
website called Hostinger. To start, go
to hostinger.com/energy.
The link for that will be in the
description box below. You'll see that
there's a couple different plans to
choose from. I have the business website
builder plan. This is because you can
create up to 50 websites. So, if you're
someone who has a lot of ideas for
different websites and stores that you
want, this is a great plan for you. It
also allows you to sell up to a thousand
products, have something like print on
demand, and you get access to all of
their AI tools. So, just click on choose
plan. Now, the way that Hostinger works
is that if you pay longer, you get a
lower price, and if you pay for, say, 1
month at a time, it'll be a higher
price. I always suggest going with the
48-month plan because you'll save the
most money. You also get a free domain
and you know that for the next 4 years
you can have this price locked in. Now
to make this even more affordable for
you just click on have a coupon code and
enter my name energy and that will get
you extra money off. Now if you don't
want to pay for everything upfront just
go with the one month plan because you
will pay more but it's only for one
month. Once we're signed up, we can use
Hostinger's AI builder to build our
store for us. All we need to do is just
type what our store is about. So, I said
that I am a travel brand and my audience
is travel enthusiasts. I'll press the
purple arrow and the AI is going to get
started making everything for us. We
don't need a lot of skills or
experience. We can get our website up
and running in just a few minutes. Now,
the AI has given us a template that is
customized to our niche and what we're
selling, but we can go in and make this
our own by pressing on continue. Then,
we're going to press on edit website.
And from here, we can edit anything that
we want to. So, first I want to get rid
of this picture in the background
because it's not really what I like. So,
I'm going to click on edit section and
then I'll click on replace image. I'll
go to free images. And here we can just
search up something like travel or beach
to get the picture that we like. I
really love this one. Oh, that looks so
good. So, I'm going to click on add to
page. Now, you can see that the steps
have updated. If you're ever like lost
on what to do, just click on next steps
and you have this whole checklist right
here. So, we can edit all of this. So,
maybe instead of saying travel your way,
I want to say, you know, best travel
t-shirts. Obviously, guys, say something
better than this. This is just an
example showing you how to do it. If I
want to move anything around, I can
easily do that. Maybe I want it in the
middle. When it comes to customizing it,
like the picture and the text, I want
you to give yourself a limit of like one
or two hours just because sometimes we
can get lost in all of the decoration.
But what really matters is these
products right here. So, I want to show
you how you can get your print ondemand
products to your website. This is the
part that makes everything super low
risk, especially for beginners who don't
have a lot of money to put in upfront.
We are going to use this service,
Printull. This way, we're not worrying
about inventory. We could literally sell
any type of product here. So, when
someone sees our listing and buys it,
the order goes straight to Printull.
They print out that product and then
ship it to your customer while you get
to keep the profit. To start, we're
going to click on store and then click
on products. Now, from here, we can
click get started and we'll press get
started again. And then we'll click on
add Printull so that it's officially in
our store. Once we sign up, we can press
authorize. And now we can set up our
billing. This is so that when a customer
buys from us, Printull will charge our
payment method to cover the cost of the
product. Again, we keep the profit
though. And in order for our customer to
pay us, we do need to set up a payment
method with Hostinger. So click on set
up payments. You have the option to
choose from Stripe and PayPal. I suggest
both. With Stripe, your customer could
pay with Visa, Mastercard, Apple Pay,
CLA, stuff like that. And with PayPal,
they can pay with their PayPal account.
So just have more. The more the marrier,
to be honest. Now let's go to create our
first product. Now when we're in
Printull, we can choose any product. I'm
just going to choose a t-shirt for an
example, but feel free to kind of
venture out and make whatever you want
to. With this t-shirt, I'm going to
click on create product template. And
now that we are in our design platform,
we can upload our own product. Now,
we're going to upload the image that
Nano Banana created. Just make sure it's
inside the print area so that nothing
gets cut off. And we're actually going
to remove that white background as well
by clicking on remove background. The
only thing we need to make sure of is
the print quality. Right now, it's okay.
So, I'm going to find an image upscaler
online and just upscale that image so
that it's in the green. As you can see,
now it's good. If everything looks okay
to you, click save to templates and then
add to store and click on your hosting
or website. From here, we're just going
to customize some things. So, if we want
to add some more colors, we can. And
then we'll press proceed to mockups. I'm
just going to choose a basic mockup for
the example, and you can see how it
looks on different colors and different
models. Then press continue when you're
okay with it. And enter in a title that
you like. Just make sure that it is
related to the product and not just a
bunch of random keywords. For the
pricing, we do have a print full price.
This is the cost of the actual shirt.
And then we have our retail price. This
is the price that we are selling the
product for. So, we can sell it for like
$15 or something and we'll get to keep
up to $7.50.
Just set the price based on what your
customer will pay. and also how much you
want to make. From here, you can see our
product in our store. It looks good. It
looks professional. It looks great on
mobile too. And the good thing is we can
also sell other types of products like
digital products or appointments so that
our store really has so many ways to
make us money. Now, I know the most
important part of this is marketing. You
do not have to spend a lot of money on
ads to market your product. What I would
do is just make organic content for Tik
Tok or Instagram. And these platforms,
as long as you make good content, will
push your video out. And then when your
customer sees your video, they can click
the link in the bio to buy your product.
So, if you're selling a mug, this might
look like you sitting and sipping on
your drink. Something simple. It doesn't
have to be too crazy, but if you want to
dive deeper into how to market your
product, I will put the playlist in the
description below. If you guys have more
questions, just comment it down below. I
respond to most comments. Other than
that guys, I will see you in my next
video. [music]