Hello. I've been running a Kubernetes
home lab for over 3 years. And in this
video, I'm going to show you exactly how
I built it and everything that is
running in my home lab. So, let's go.
Starting with the hardware. The biggest
mistake people make is thinking that you
need very expensive hardware to build a
home lab. That you need fancy racks and
servers. Well, you don't. Like, my home
lab is really ghetto. So, the main
machines I use are HP Elite Desks. So,
HP Elite Desk 800 G2 Mini. I'm using i5
versions with 16 GB of RAM and i3
versions with 8 GB of RAM. I have about
six of those all clustered up and this
is an amazing setup for a Kubernetes
home lab. And that's also the beauty of
Kubernetes because it allows you to
cobble together whatever hardware you
have on hand and just use that. So other
options, really good options are
Raspberry Pies. If you if you're doing
this for learning, if you're actually
hosting heavy applications, I don't
really recommend using Raspberry Pies,
but if you're just learning Kubernetes,
it's a great option. And also Lenovo
Think Centers, these are also good
options for this kind of setup. So using
Think Lines and the good thing about
this is that you can get these really
cheap because this is refurbished
enterprise hardware. So here in the
Netherlands, there are companies that
specialize in buying up this old
hardware, refurbishing it, and selling
it for pretty cheap. Like these go for
maybe$1, $150. You can get them very
cheap, so you can build a really nice
home lab that way. The second machine
that I recently started using is a Minis
Fororum NS MSA2. This is more like a
knock. It has 32 GB of RAM, pretty
decent processor. The only disadvantage
is that it's pretty noisy, but if you
get one or two of those, you already
have a really good setup, too. And I'm
actually also using my ThinkPad T480. I
just have that as a Kubernetes node as
well. So, again, you can just cobble
together whatever hardware you have and
go from there. And sure, if you want to
invest and build a nice rack with
enterprise servers, go for it. But I
just want to say you don't need it. And
my home lab is pretty ghetto, but I I do
lots of interesting things on it. So
let's just go into how I built the home
lab then. So when I started out I was
using K3S. So everybody probably knows
K3S lightweight Kubernetes. This is what
Rancher is built on or what Rancher uses
under the hood. And it's really good for
getting started. It's really good for
running on small edge edge machines
running on the edge. Optimized for ARM.
So it's great for Raspberry Pies. So K3S
is the one to start with. But I after a
year of using that I moved to Talos
Linux and that is actually what I am
using now. This is the Kubernetes
operating system. And why this is really
good is because it basically you install
it. It's an immutable OS and it takes
over your whole disk and you don't even
get an SSH endpoint. It's a completely
secured, completely hardened operating
system that only exposes the Talos API
that you can then apply configuration
to. So you cannot even SSH in there. So
it's super secure, but it is its own
rabbit hole. And I don't recommend this
for beginners, but it is it is an
amazing piece of software. And I've been
using it for two years now and
absolutely love it. So that's what I I
use. In terms of cluster architecture,
I'm actually using two clusters in my
home lab. The first cluster is Mimir.
This is where I'm running all of my
let's say data and stateful workloads.
So here I'm running my Postgress
databases. I have about nine of them
running right now and I'm going to show
you exactly how that works in a second
and this also contains my self-hosted
git server which I'm going to show you
in a second too. The second cluster that
I have is called Yotenheim and this has
my main applications and basically
anything in Yotenheim is supposed to be
completely stateless. So the idea here
is that Yotenheim is also the cluster
where I also will apply updates first.
So all of my infrastructure upgrades
when I upgrade my CNI etc. I will first
do it on the application cluster and
when everything goes well there then I'm
confident of applying that to my
database cluster and this way I don't
really need to have a staging
environment for my clusters although
that would be ideal but I'm also
optimizing for resource usage here and
this was the the architecture that has
start that worked really well for me so
all of these databases are exposed as
external IPs and I'm using the celium
load balancer IPAM for that. I'm going
to show you that in a second too. But
these are all available on their own
URLs. So all of the applications can
then reach these databases over my
internal network. And I've I found this
to be work really well and it's a very
clean architecture that I really like.
So before we dive into all of the
applications that you see on the screen,
I will just address the question that
you may be having right now, which is
why Kubernetes and you may think that
this is completely overkill for just
running a few applications. Well, the
point is that it's overkill on purpose.
So, this home lab is not just something
that I do only for fun. I'm using this
as a career asset, right? So, when I
built this home lab 3 years ago, I built
that because I wanted a Kubernetes job.
And by building a home lab like this, I
could have proof of hands-on experience
with the tooling that I wanted to work
with. Because the thing is, nobody cares
if you just spin up a quick cluster and
put that on your CV. Like, that's not
going to land you jobs. Hiring managers
will care if you can demonstrate that
you can expose applications to the
internet in a secure way. If you run
your own mini data center and your own
production grade infrastructure, you can
truly have proof of enterprisegrade
skills built on your home lab. And that
is why I do it. And this is also what I
teach my private students. And they are
landing jobs every single week because
of this method. And just last week I had
an interview with one of my students. He
lives in the United States. He didn't
have a CS degree and didn't have a tech
background. But because he built the
home lab as I taught him, he managed to
land his first DevOps job in the
industry even in this market as a
junior. So building a home lab really is
the gateway into a good tech career. You
can watch the full interview over here
if you're interested in that. And a
second reason why this works so well is
because if you use Kubernetes properly,
you are using git ops, which means that
you deploy your applications from git.
And because you deploy from git, this
also means that you can build a public
portfolio of your home lab that you can
then leverage to as a as a project to
show to hiring managers. And this is
also how Pedro landed that job. So it's
a really effective method. So what's
actually running on my home lab then?
Well, we will start with the actual
dashboard that you see here. This is
already running as a container on my
home lab. This is called homepage and
it's a really clean nice home dashboard
that I really like. You can configure it
completely with with YAML files. And
yeah, this is the one that I landed on.
It's a really good option in my opinion.
And from here, this is basically the
portal into my home lab where I and the
rest of my life basically um from where
I manage everything. So, let's start
with 4Jo. This is my self-hosted git
instance. So here I have a few
repositories for the applications that I
built for myself and I'm also using this
for mirroring other repositories from
GitHub so that I will always have my own
local copy of certain repositories that
I want to store in case the author take
decides to take it down and also by
self-hosting my own git instance I
actually I don't submit my code to
GitHub so that they can use that for
scanning and training AI models. So
that's why I really liked it. I also did
a full video on forj itself. I explained
why I chose this and how I set it up and
you can watch that by clicking somewhere
over here. The next application is
LinkedIn. You have maybe seen this in
other videos as well. This is a really
nice and simple applications really good
for starting to learn. And this is
basically a self-hosted bookmark manager
because I tend to switch browsers a lot
and I was getting tired of migrating all
of the bookmarks. And this way I have a
very nice setup where I have just store
all of my bookmarks in a separate thing
and it doesn't really matter what
browser I'm using. I can always just
visit and search and organize my
bookmarks in this application. It's a
highly recommended application. Oh, by
the way, 73% of my viewers are not
subscribed to my channel. So, please
subscribe right now. It's a free way to
support my channel. It allows me to put
out more free content out like this
every single week. The next application
is N8N. So, you probably know about
NATN, but this is a self-hosted
automation workflow application. I have
a few things like for example, I have a
Telegram chat, and if I record voice
notes there, then I have an automation
there that will transcribe it and store
it in a certain system that I use.
Another interesting workflow that I have
running is my GitHub workflow auto
updater. So, every hour, this workflow
will scan all of my PRs and then
classify them and review them. And some
of the PRs it will merge automatically
but other PRs it will write me an
assessment and for example my Celium um
needs an update here and because that's
a critical infrastructure component it
then will tell me that I need to review
this but if we check the pull requests
uh which have been closed and we will
also see that 1 hour ago it has closed
or merged a few other applications on
its own. my home lab infrastructure is
actually being managed by AI to some
degree. So I don't even have to review
all of the upgrades anymore. This is
just handled by an AI workflow, which is
really good. So this is a very very nice
use case of N8N, I have a few more
workflows in mind. But if you're
interested in getting this workflow and
and knowing more about how I deployed
N8N, check out the link below in the
description because the that guide will
provide some information about that as
well completely for free. The next
application is paperless. This is a
relatively new addition to my home lab.
This is a place where I upload documents
and it will then scan them with OCR and
then I get a searchable database of all
of my paper documents. It's really cool.
Uh I have not played with it too much
yet, but I did set it up and I plan to
just have all of my paper documents
stored in here so that I have a
searchable database of them. So, highly
recommend this application as well. The
next application is the reading list.
This is something that I built myself
with the help of a little bit of AI. And
uh here this is the application where I
track the books that I want to read and
also which versions of those I own. So
this is um a very nice little
application that I built myself running
in a container and yeah I love making
these little small custom applications.
The next one is Walabag. This is a read
later app. So what I can do is I can
visit any blog or web page on the
internet and I can then use the browser
plugin to send this to my self-hosted
Wabag instance and then Wabag will
scrape it and it will store that in my
private instance. So I can get back to
this article later at my own convenience
running on my own infrastructure uh and
read it. And the advantage of this is
that if the author for example decides
to take that article down, I always have
my own copy of that. So I really like
this. Whenever I come across an article
that I want to store or that I want to
read later, I will usually pull that
into my walab instance and then I can
take it from there. Now the next row is
are some yeah external applications.
Obviously I'm not self-hosting LinkedIn
or X which is not possible. So these are
just external links that I use every
day. In the next section, my consume
section here is miniflexux. So if you've
seen my previous videos, you may know
that I was using comma feed before and I
switched to minifux which because this
one has a better API and I'm doing a few
interesting things that I'm going to
show in a second. But this is basically
an RSS feed reader. I subscribe to
certain RSS feeds that I want to read.
But what Minilelux allowed me to do is I
actually have several instances of
Miniflux running in my home lab and then
I scrape those I pull those through AI.
So one of my feeds here is the CubeCraft
curated content feed and these are
articles that are scored with an AI
prompt and an algorithm that I wrote for
myself and with based on this score I
can determine if an article is worth my
time or not. So I basically have a
prefiltered list of content that I or
that my AI deems useful for me and my
business. So for example, why Kubernetes
is retiring ingress engine X is of
course very relevant to me and my
business. And then I also get a AI
generated summary here with all of the
main points and all of the takeaways and
the wisdom. So, I already have a very
quick overview of the the content and
then I can go and open that article and
read it at my own convenience. I think
this is a really nice setup and I'm
always expanding on this more and more.
But this really helps me to zone in on
the content that I actually want and
should be consuming rather than just
letting the algorithms like the social
media algorithms decide what I consume.
So, I'm very very intentional with this
kind of stuff and Minifilux is helping
me with that. So it's a great great
application. Works really well so far.
Has a good API. Yeah, highly recommend
Mini Flux. And the next application I
want to show you is Audio Bookshelf.
This is a really nice application. It
works really well. I use this obviously
to manage the audio books that I own,
but another good use case of audio
bookshelf that many people don't know
about is its ability to download
podcasts. So I have a several podcasts
that I am subscribed to and then it will
actually download those episodes on my
own infrastructure and that also means
that I can do things with those audio
files like for example transcription
automatic transcription. I haven't set
it up yet but I so my plan is to also
pull this into this content system that
I'm building this this content curation
system and audio bookshelf allows me to
do that. This is a really interesting
use case of audiobookshelf that I really
like. So another great application. I've
been using this for years. I support the
project and it's a it's a really good
application. So highly recommended to
check that out. Now the next project I
will show you is what I call quantified
self and this is also a segue into my
database setup. But basically what I do
here is I wear a whoop and I wear an
aura ring and I gather all sorts of
metrics about myself from many different
sources too, but these are the ones that
I want to show you. And then I I scrape
those APIs and I store them in my own
databases. And what this allows me to do
is to query those databases and
visualize them in Graphana dashboards.
And yeah, this is very nerdy and very
geeky, but I absolutely love doing this.
And what what this allows me to do is to
have a copy of that data always stored
on my own infrastructure so that
whenever one of these companies goes
down or they decide that I cannot use
their service anymore, at least I will
always have a a copy of the data that
I've gathered of of myself over multiple
years at this point. So these are just
SQL queries that I then use to create
these visualizations. So obviously to
run a query like this you need a
database where this data is stored in.
And now I'll show you how I do that. So
I'm now connected to my dev container. I
always work inside of containers. I
don't have cubectl installed on my main
system as you can see which cubectl it
doesn't exist on my main system. I only
work inside of containers. So here I
obviously have cubectl running. So if I
do k get clusters- a so getting all of
the clusters that I have running in my
name spaces then I have how many are
those kga get clusters and then let's
count the lines I have 13 lines and if
you exclude the top line so I have 12
clusters running on my kubernetes
cluster so these are database clusters
not kubernetes clusters these are all
postgress clusters which are provisioned
using cloudnative pg anyone who says
that you cannot or should not run
databases on Kubernetes are full of
They don't know what they're
talking about. In fact, databases are
one of the most common workloads that
you'll see being run on Kubernetes. Huge
government organizations are using
databases on Kubernetes. And to do that,
I recommend using cloud native PG. It's
free and open source and it's a really
really good project. I've been using it
for years both in my home lab and
professionally and it's it's worth your
while learning this. And the way that
works is that I simply apply a manifest
to my cluster like this. And when I when
I apply this, it will then provision a
database cluster including backups to S3
storage. So if I just quickly change to
the quantified self namespace and if I
do K get clusters here, then you will
see I have the cluster. Then if I just
quickly grab the name of that cluster
like this and if I then encmpus
cluster then the CMPG operator is going
to give me a very nice little overview
of my cluster here. Actually I see that
I have a failed backup. Everything is in
a healthy state. Everything is running
well. I have three instances and my last
successful backup was um a few hours
ago. Everything is looking good. I have
working wall archiving. All of my
instances are working well. And if I
then open K9s for example and and check
it out in here, these are the pods that
are running. So the CMPG operator
deploys several pods and creates a
Postgress cluster out of those
practically. And if I execute um into
one of these pods, then I can just run
psql and then I have a shell into my
database cluster. So if I do C, I can
connect to my quantified self database
and I'll show you the tables that are in
here. So here you will see I am doing my
body composition, my diet, I have my
Strava data in there, Whoop, everything.
And if I then for example do the Whoop
uh sleep. So these are the columns that
I have in my Whoop sleep section. And if
I then want to show for example my
scores, uh let me see which one is that.
That will be my my sleep performance. If
I just grab that line here and if I then
select sleep performance percentage from
Whoop sleep then it will show me my
sleep performance percentages for
example. And this is just the query that
I use in my graphana dashboard. So
everything is stored on my self-hosted
Postgress clusters and then I'm able to
visualize those in my graphana
dashboards. I really like this because
it brings all of my data together. And
then I can do things like comparing my
Whoop and URA metrics all in the same
place. And again, I have my own copy of
my own data and I'm not dependent on
these companies if they decide to take
it down. So the next question then is
how do I get all of this data into my
database? And surprise surprise, I'm
also using Kubernetes for that. If I
exit this pod and if I then go back to
K9s
and now I'm going to switch to my app
cluster and open K9s here. If I then
open up all of the jobs that I have
here. Then if I check all all namespaces
then you will see that I have a Whoop
scraper and UA scraper running as jobs.
So the the last one completed 25 minutes
ago and it then scrapes the Whoop API
and then stores the data that it finds
there and adds that to my Postgress
database. So I do that for my Whoop
data, my Aura data and my Straa data.
And that's how I do it. And the code for
those scrapers is public on my GitHub.
You can take it and do whatever you want
with it. Uh just know that it's very
bespoke and tailored to my own setup.
But maybe it is some u source of
inspiration for you to build your own
scraping setup. So both the aura scraper
and the whoop scraper are there and I'll
link them down below as well. So in
terms of infrastructure for my cluster,
so all of the non- application
components, we've already talked about
how I run my databases. But for my
monitoring, I obviously use Graphana and
Prometheus. So I'm just using the
standard cube Prometheus stack. And this
also gives me all of the standard
dashboards to monitor my resource usage
on these clusters. All works really
well. But monitoring is completely use
useless if you don't alert if you don't
have notification set up. So monitoring
is useless without alerting and I have a
pretty decent alerting setup where all
of the applications are being monitored
and if an application goes down I will
be notified via telegram. So this is a
really nice setup. I'm really satisfied
with I'm using the Graphfana alert
manager and not the Prometheus alert
manager. And this is one of the things
that I teach my students that if you can
use Graphfana for something then then do
that because basically the industry has
decided and Graphfana is the way.
Prometheus alert manager is pretty old
and it's better to do it with Grafana.
Let's just keep it at that. Another
interesting piece of infrastructure is
uptime Kuma. I'm using this to monitor
the uptime of my applications. uh among
them my my blog and I actually didn't
mention that just now but my blog is
also being run on my Kubernetes cluster.
So if you visit my blog you are actually
watching a page that's running on my
Kubernetes cluster running at home and
I'm also hosting all of the code and the
CI/CD pipelines all on my Kubernetes
cluster. It's completely self-hosted and
I will show you exactly how that works
in the forjio video that I just
mentioned which will be linked in the
screen up here. Now for my GitHub
solution, I use the tool that real men
use, which is flux CD. So if I do flux
get customizations, you will see that I
have a bunch of customizations, but I
also have a few Helm releases that are
running on my cluster as well. I mean,
any self-respecting DevOps engineer will
manage his GitOps workflows from the CLI
and Flux CD is obviously it's the the
superior option there. So that is the
one that I I use and I chose with and
I'm I'm very very happy with. And the
last very important component of my
infrastructure is Selium. I chose
Pselium because it's Ebpfbased
networking. And as you see here, plenty
of huge companies are using this CNI in
their production infrastructure. And
again, as I mentioned in the beginning
of my this video, my home lab is a
career asset. I'm using my home lab to
develop myself as an engineer. And then
and in that context, Celium was the
obvious choice for me. So I'm using
that. It's uh it's very advanced.
There's tons of stuff to configure here,
but it works really well. And another
reason why I like Celium is because I
can do basically everything with it. So
I can expose external IPs using the load
balancers. I can create ingress
resources and I can use the gateway API
all with one component and I really like
that. So it works really well. That's
why I chose Selium. So everything you've
seen so far has taken me years to learn.
But if you want to build a Kubernetes
home lab, you can use the free guide
that is linked down below, so you can
save a ton of time and learn from all of
the mistakes I made. It also includes
the code for the nitn um workflow that I
just showed you earlier. Well, that's
it. That's all of the applications and
the infrastructure that's running on my
Kubernetes home lab. Let me know in the
comments if this gave you some
inspiration. Which of these apps are you
going to be trying yourself? Check out
the free guide that is linked down
below.