Dude, yes. This is exactly what we
wanted. Okay, so I have an insane idea
for an indicator and I want to see if
Quant can build it. So I want to build
an indicator that is essentially topdown
analysis for delta, but you can visually
see the candle deltas on multiple time
frames. If my chart is on the five
minute time frame, I want to see the
delta values under the candles on the
chart. But to the right of price, I also
want to see the delta values of three
different other time frames. So
essentially, I want to see the delta for
the chart that I'm on. And then to the
right of price, I want to see uh higher
time frame candles with the delta as
well. Let's see what this builds. All
right, so just like that, it built it
out. We have our code here, top down
delta analysis. I'm just going to copy
that. Go over to trading view and then
pine editor. And I'm going to create new
indicator. And I'm going to paste that
in and add it to my chart. Okay, so we
currently have our delta values
underneath each candle. Exactly what I
wanted. And then to the right, we
actually have a dashboard here that
floats in the middle of the screen,
which is nice. Uh, so I can see the 15
minute, 60 minute, and then the 4 hour.
And it does let me change that as well.
Now, this is awesome. It's a good start
of what I wanted. I can see the
15-minute has a bullish delta right now,
while the 60-minute is still in a
bearish delta. I want to see those
candles on my chart. So, I'm going to go
back to quant. All right. So, I said
this is a good start. Now, instead of a
dashboard, I want the higher time frame
candles to appear on my chart, like PO3
indicator, so I can see how the candles
are forming in real time. So, Quant's
going to build this out. You can already
see remove the dashboard table. I'm just
waiting for the new code. All right, so
we just got our code back. It changed
the name a little bit. Htf delta P3.
Okay, so it's understanding we want the
P3. So we copy the code here. Let's
bring that over and see and add it to
our chart. Dude, yes, this is exactly
what we wanted. Okay, so the 15-minute
here, you can see this is the 15-minute
candle. That' be the 60-minute candle,
240. We can change that to show 4 hour,
but we can see how each candle is
forming in real time with a delta.
What's actually interesting is I want to
know how much time is left in these
candles. So that's the next thing we're
actually going to add. So I'm going to
go back to quant. So all I said was I
would like to add a countdown on each
higher time frame candle so I know how
much time is left in that candle. So I'm
going to send that and we'll wait for
the code to update again. All right. So
we have the updated code again. I'm just
going to copy it. Go back over to
Trading View. Paste it in here. Refresh.
Perfect. Okay. So you can see the
countdown. We have an hour and 9 minutes
on the 4 hour. Uh we have 9 minutes left
on the 1 hour. 40 seconds left on the 1
minute. That's exactly what I want
because now I know if we're in the back
half of a 4 hour or in the front half of
a 4 hour, I can see how much it's
accumulated. If you want to build an
indicator just like this with your very
own idea or the exact same idea I had,
comment the word quant and I'll send you
the link.