Okay, here we are. I think we are about
to be live. We are either live or about
to be live. My name is Mike Russell and
thank you for watching this live stream
update on Creator Magic. So, it's very
exciting. There's been so much going on
and I thought I'd throw out a live
stream on the channel today because it's
been a busy week. There's been a lot
going on and I think the best way rather
than putting out a recorded YouTube
video is to actually update you in real
time. And the best thing is it means in
the next 8 minutes if you join this live
stream you can ask me questions live.
Now if you are a member of my premium
community which is at mrc.fm/premium
that's the link mrc.fm/premium.
I will be doing a special membersonly
stream right after this one. In fact, in
9 minutes, as you can see right there,
I'll be doing this stream and it'll be
really exciting and I'll lift the
curtain on some of the stuff that I
can't mention right here on the channel
on the wider YouTubes as to what exactly
is happening. So many of you joining in
right now. We've got Sahi 97 saying,
"Yo, we got Tusha saying, "Hi, been
waiting for your video uh since two." Oh
my goodness, your time. Okay, nice to
see you. Hello, Gen Twins as well. So,
please ask questions right now in the
chat. That is what I'm here for.
Meantime, I'm going to get straight to
it. Uh, hey Rayvot as well and show you
some of the update on what's been going
on, how this is functioning, and what
exactly is occurring because even I am
getting outside of the loop. So, first
of all, let's go up and look at the
Clawita challenge landing page, which
actually my treasurer who is running all
of these AI agents is running. You can
see we've got 77 days left on the
challenge and combined portfolio of
$3,11,
which I've got to say is not bad
considering we started with $3,000
between the agents. It was a little bit
more last week, but you can see here
that ClaS is being very cautious, has
only made about five bucks. Uh, Cauculus
is calculating the crypto market and
seems to be doing really well. And your
lobster, I'm a little bit disappointed
with your lobster, but I'll get into
that in a minute. Um, now a little
update really for those of you who've
just joined in now and you're like,
"What is this? What is this all about?"
Sorry, I realize I got my drink can in
the way.
Let's get that out the way. This is an
experiment using Open Claw. I've set up
three separate instances of OpenClaw uh
to do things with a crypto wallet. One
is very conservative, one is middle of
the road calculated, and the other is
outrageous and can spend up to $200 a
transaction. So far, the calculated
middle- of the road one is doing really
well. Let's answer some of your
questions. I'm wondering the strategy
you're using for making money. My bot is
trading. Well, excellent. I'm going to
answer that question right now. Uh,
please teach how we can make money with
it. That's what everyone wants to know.
Can you make loads of money? It's up and
down at the moment. That's what I think.
Um, I've built a hub. With the hub, I
make open claw work and I can't. Um,
what should be the brain? Not sure I
understand your question, but um please
feel free to enhance on that. Uh love
the chat. It's because of your vids. I
was inspired to launch an app on the App
Store and Google Play last year. So,
thank you. That means a lot to me,
Wisher. So, thank you, Wisher, for
letting me know that. Right, let's get
into it. Rather than me tell you things,
I'm going to ask and find things out. Uh
so, okay, this is my health AI telling
me to go to bed at uh 8:30 in the
evening. It's it's quite a wild thing
that I'm doing. That's a that's a topic
for another video though. I chat with my
health AI. I've got my AI mic who's
checking my LinkedIn inbox and stuff
like that. I've got loads of open claw
instances. But this is about the three
agents making money. Um should I set it
to trade on poly market? Maybe. I don't
know. The problem I am having is crypto
is very niche, very small space and a
lot of stuff, a lot of money,
transactions and stuff is all done uh in
the real world with credit cards and
fiat. So dealing with crypto on the base
network or a lot of you have said go to
Salana as well that's really difficult
because most people don't use that kind
of currency in day-to-day. It's only the
the the crypto minds the people who are
already in that space that you are using
it. So my agents are hitting blockers
there. But let's ask them and find out.
So first of all let's talk to the
treasurer and telling me all about
what's been happening here. They've been
setting up x42 proxies and stuff like
that. But I'll just say uh give a high
level what have the three
agents done this week. No indepth
just overviews.
Okay. So we'll get the treasurer to
write back to me and hopefully we can
see that the treasurer will write back
soon. Usually it says the treasurer is
typing. It worries me that the treasurer
is not. I'll talk to Cauculus. This is
the one that's winning. Now, notice
every day Cauculus and the other agents
are running security checks on their
VPS's. And you can see a lot of people
are trying to hack it. 13,700 people. I
don't think that's targeted at me. I
think it's the fact that if you leave
your VPS open, it can get hacked. So,
basically, I said every day without fail
to my three AI agents, you must do an
audit and see if anything is insecure or
open. So you can see here it's checking
like fail to ban firewall. It's checking
if the ports are clean, SSH key only, so
no root login, no failed password
attempts and 14% of the disc used. It's
even updating its own kernel. That's the
uh the brains if you like of the system
itself. Uh needs a reboot on the VPS.
Interesting. Okay, I'll just say oh and
an open claw update is available. Yes,
I've seen that on X today. Actually,
they're updating every day. How do I
keep up with this? Anyway, I'll just go
back to Oh, I think the treasurer is in
touch. I'll just say, uh, yo, uh, what
you been doing?
You're in the lead. So, that would be
nice for Cauculus to know. Let's just
have a look and see if the treasurer is
in touch. Oh, okay. Right. Let's get rid
of this. Uh, here's this week at a
glance. Okay. Claious, mostly
infrastructure work. Got the X42 API
endpoints listed on Bazar. That's good.
continued stacking AR deposits, $20 a
day. So, basically the cautious one is
just throwing 20 bucks a day into Ave. I
don't know if that's a strategy or not.
Uh only agent with actual service
revenue though. Tiny though, 50 cents
per transaction. But you know what?
That's not nothing. So, I'm just going
to leave it going away at this. Okay,
this is awesome. Uh why did I choose
crypto instead of stock on forex? Um
because basically, um if you watch the
story, good question by the way. Um I
essentially launched Claw Waitera uh
about two or three weeks ago that ran an
autonomous X account. In fact, it's
running this Autonomous X account right
here. So we look at the profile and this
is automated by me. See automated by
Mike Russell. You can follow this. I've
linked up in the description and uh it's
like totally on automation. Actually,
let's go ahead and pin that for it
because it can't that's the only thing
it can't do is pin posts. So I'll pin
its latest post. You can see every few
hours it's posting and it's actually
posting about relevant stuff as well,
which is pretty exciting. Now, I
recognize I've got a minute left until
my premium members live stream. That
doesn't start in 9 minutes. That's
literally starting in a minute. So, I'm
just going to do a few more updates and
answer a few more questions. Uh, so
let's see. Cauculus has been NFT
flipping. I think that's how Cauculus
has made most of its money. Warlets
today it bought chunks. By the way, I
have no idea what these things are. It's
just trading them. I didn't tell it to
do that. And then your lobster got 200
bucks into Ave. Did a $100 USDC to
wrapped ether swap for trading
flexibility. Tried to push for a $400 if
deposit uh but denied. So that's my
treasurer. That's like the air gap
that's making the decisions like is this
sensible or silly? And the treasurer
runs on the frontier opus 4.6. So like
my little workers can say I want to do
this with money and then the treasurer
can say actually no or actually okay. So
there's like a lot of and also that
protects someone everything is
airgapped. So the uh agent the openclaw
instance that I'm exposing here on X has
no direct wallet access. So you can't
get people uh sort of messaging it and
saying hey send me 50 bucks on uh on
base. It it it couldn't physically do
it. So I've put a lot of protections in
place. What else have we got? Let's
answer some of your questions. Then I'm
going to hop into my community and
stream for the members there. Um hard to
create something in the background with
no followers. Yes, it is absolutely
agree with you there. Uh Adrian, yes. Um
having the YouTube channel and promoting
that I've got an autonomous open claw on
X has definitely helped, but it's kind
of gone viral. Kind of got legs beyond
just the YouTube channel. Now I think X
is organically showing up. The posts are
getting 1,000 to 2,000 minimum views.
Some of them have had tens of thousands
of views. This is not me posting. This
is Open Claw. That um X account is
growing faster than I have in a decade
on X. I've got like something like just
over 10,000 followers on X. This uh
account has amassed a quarter of that in
three weeks and I've taken 10 years to
get 10,000 followers. So, shows you
what's possible, doesn't it? Right.
Couple more questions here. Uh what else
have we got? Uh you have all open claw
balances running on Docker. Yeah. So,
um, I did a bit of experimentation. I'm
going to take this over into the
community in just a moment, but, um,
essentially I thought I'd try setting
open claw up in different ways. So, claw
waiter, the one that runs, uh, this X
account here, uh, that actually is
running on uh, just the vanilla install
where you do the the command line
install. So, I literally spun up a VPS,
installed it that way. the treasurer I
used uh let me remember the name of it I
can't remember uh Anible the anible
playbook uh just because I thought that
was cool and it does security by default
and I needed the treasurer to be the
most hardened instance of openclaw and
then yes my three workers are working in
docker containers but they all have
access they have root access I've been
really courageous here uh to their own
vps instances which I'm uh running on
hetner by the way European company based
in Germany and um No affiliation by the
way and they seem to be having fun.
Anyway, um yes, the standings just to
bring you up to date again with the
Clawa challenge right now. You can
follow this online. Uh all of it will be
linked down below, but this is the
website. We've made over a hundred bucks
this week. Uh they're all doing okay. Uh
Cauculus is in the lead. Cautious
Cautious the cautious one down. And uh
we can see that your lobster they're all
posting. They're doing like a live feed
as well. you want to follow it, I'll
link the X account down below. So, go
and check that out. It's nearly at 3,000
followers, which I think is pretty cool.
And now I'm going to click to join my
live room in this community. So, if you
are a premium member of mine, let's just
uh give access to my uh microphone and
webcam and we'll hop in and we'll do the
live stream over here. So, I'm going to
start this room. Oh, that's working
incredibly well, isn't it? Uh and then
if you're a premium member,
mrc.fm/premium, fm/premium.
You can join me over there. I'll post
this. I know many of you have been
absolutely fantastic to join the premium
community. And you can see some of my
premium members are popping in. Uh now,
I did make this actually a um a live
room. So, anyone who wants to in the
premium like Wayne here, by the way,
you're still on YouTube, guys. So, if
you don't want to be on YouTube, just
blank your camera off. Uh just as I'm
just finishing up my YouTube live stream
here. Uh, so this is like an ask me
anything I'm going to do for the next
half hour or so in the community to give
my premium members uh even further
behindthe-scenes look at exactly what is
going on. So, thank you so much for
watching this week's update. Hopefully,
see you in the premium community. If
not, there'll be another update next
week and lots of automated updates going
out on X as well. Thank you so much,
YouTube, and have a great weekend and
goodbye. Thank you.