It is the year 2041. Your toaster
requires biometric face scan to log into
it. You can't join a group chat without
linking three government databases and
proving [music] you're eligible to
communicate. You need to submit your
identification, blood type, social
security number, and whole [music] pass
before you authenticate to your local
chat application. For those of us who
just want to send hello world print to
the homies, there's another option.
[music] Withdraw consent from the age
verification slop. Use protocols, not
[music] platforms. XMPPP is the answer.
What's up, guys? My [music] name is
Tony, and today I'm going to give you a
quick and painless guide on XMPPP.
XMPPP, formerly known as Jabber, [music]
is the extensible messaging and presence
protocol. It is a federated instant
messaging standard [music] where your
server talks to all other servers, just
like email. It is a very lightweight
messaging protocol that has been battle
tested for over 25 years. I recently
made a video on Matrix, which is another
open-source messaging protocol. But
there are some reasons why I think XMPPP
is superior. In Matrix, when you join a
room, your server downloads [music] and
stores the entire history of that room.
If someone on a federated server posts
illegal content in a room you're in,
your server is now hosting it, and you
are liable. Whereas [music]
in XMPPP, messages are relayed in real
time. Group chat, MU history stays on
your server hosting that room. So your
server [music] only stores messages for
your users which means that no content
caching there is no content caching from
other servers. This is a fundamental
architectural difference [music] which
makes the XMPPP protocol better in my
opinion. So let's jump into how to
install and use XMPPP. So similar to the
matrix video, I'm going to show two
paths. One is the normie path, the
5-minute escape route where we're going
to create a public account and then
download a client. And for me, my client
of choice is Gajim. As you can see here,
it's similar to Discord [music] or
Element in so far as it's got
workspaces, it's got rooms, etc. But
after I show that, I will show the
self-hosting path [music] for those of
you who are more enthused, if you will.
So, without further ado, let's jump
right into it. All right, so the first
thing we're going to do is head over to
xmp.org and [music] click on the getting
started tab. Now, it says to download a
client first and then create an account
after. If you already have an account,
you can just download a client and log
into that account. But for the normie
coming over from Discord or Telegram or
what have you, we're going to scroll
down here to create an account and we're
going to click this public provider list
here. And for us, for today's purposes,
we're going to use jabers.1 here. We'll
click on the English and we'll go
straight to this website here,
jabbers.1. We'll create an [music]
account and I'm going to make that tony
btw. And for the password, I'm going to
do password one, two, three, and accept
the privacy policy and the terms of use.
And this is going to be the hardest part
for me, confirming that I am a human
because like I said previously, I do
kind of feel like a robot in my soul
here. See, this is the thing. It says
find places for relaxing. So, I got to
think, what would a human [music] look
for when relaxing, right? Probably not a
monster truck. That's probably not very
relaxing for humans. Maybe [music] a
couch, I guess. Maybe some chairs.
Again, I'm not sure. I'm just going off
of what I've read from the LLM training
data that I've been kind of trained on
here. So, yeah, I think humans prefer to
be relaxing on these couches or
whatever. So, we'll verify that. Looks
like that worked out. So, once you've
passed the human check, just go ahead
and register that. And there we go. All
right. So, the registration succeeded
and we're ready to jump into a client
here. So, now over back on this getting
started tab here, we do see a couple
options. You've got a couple browser
options. Mov.js.
You've got Dino and Gajim. Kajjim is my
preferred client here. That's going to
be on Linux native desktop here. But for
the purpose of this tutorial, we're
going to use converse.js just right in
the browser. Now, I don't know anything
about Beagle IM cuz I've never heard of
this distribution of Linux. I don't know
what that is. I don't know if that's
MSUS or MCOS. If you have that
distribution of Linux, maybe check
Beagle IM out, but I can't attest to the
validity of how good that's going to be
as a user experience for [music] you.
So, let's check out converse.js JS here
today. And we see it's just a web
browser client here for XMPPP chat. So
let's click take me to the app. And
we're going to log in with that account
we just made here. It's going to be Tony
by the way one jabver.1. [music] The
password is going to be you know what we
discussed earlier. So we'll log into
that. And there [music] we go. Got this
beautiful looking chat app here with no
group chats or no anything. So now
[music] this part is where you're going
to join one of my rooms here. And I've
got a general conference here. So we'll
do add group chat. And the group chat
[music] address is going to be Tony by
the way at
conference.xmP.tononybyway.com.
Nickname could be Tony by the way. And
we'll join that. There we go. So we're
inside of this group chat here. Going to
tell everybody that they're all going to
get doxed in this video here. But yeah,
this is the group chat here for now.
It's got 15 participants in this
specific room. You can add group chats
here and you can join other rooms as
needed and you can do a lot more than
that. And that's it. You're on XMPPP. no
government ID, no proprietary garbage,
you're ready to go. And if you want to
stop here and just use a public server,
that's totally fine. But if you want to
self-host your own server and have full
control, I'm going to explain how to do
that right now. So for me, in my
situation, I have created a bridge on my
XMPPP server that goes straight to the
matrix server. So I can join a matrix
room from an XMPP client so I can keep
everything consolidated in one place.
So, what that looks like in practice is
I can go over to the OXWM matrix room
for my XMPPP client and just start
talking about OXWM. But yeah, let's jump
into the setup of the XMPPP server. So,
thanks to Iconic here for the B-roll, we
can talk about the great things that
Linux and self-hosting [music] have in
general. So, for self-hosting, similar
to Matrix, I have my XMPP server on the
same ThinkPad in my closet. As shown
previously, you can literally get a
laptop from a thrift store for really
cheap and restore it as needed. or you
can just grab a laptop from your dad's
garage or what have you. And the
beautiful thing about XMPPP is that it
is such a lightweight protocol that you
can host it on hardware from the 1990s
and it will still run fine. And the
benefit of that is that you don't need a
VPS. But again, if you really want to
use one, that's fine, too. All you need
is a domain name and an internet
connection. For the operating system of
the server, I'm going to be using Nyx OS
today due to its ability to declare the
entire server in one or two files and
not have to worry about maneuvering
around random EngineX config files or
Synapse config files, etc. So, there
will be more of a deeper dive, so to
speak, on the DevOps side of things with
respect to Nyxos in the future, but for
today's video, I'm just going to assume
you guys are already on board with the
Nyx OS message. All right. So, I'm on a
NixxOS machine here. And what we're
going to do is we're going to add an
XMPP.Nix
file to our configuration. So, for me,
I'm going to CD into my Nixos.files
directory. And I'm just going to make
XMPP.Nix.
And I'm going to go into
configuration.nix here and include that
file into this import section here.
So, let's open up this XMPP.N nix file
and we'll start the process on getting
this going. So we're going to define
some variables here. Let's define the
domain here. For me, this is going to be
xmp.tonony
by theway.com. And then we'll do the muk
domain. So that's going to be
conference.domain.
And then the upload domain, it's going
to be upload.domain.
So we've got our variables here. And
we're going to enable the procity
service. So we'll do services.procity.
And for procity, let's leave that empty
for right now, just to kind of show what
we're going to do total. So we'll do the
procity service. And then we're also
going to set up some networking here. So
we'll do networking.firewall.allow
TCP ports here. And we're going to
eventually enable some ports. So this is
going to be the structure of the file.
We're just going to have the procity
service, which is what we're going to be
using for our XMPPP server. And then
we're going to open up some ports here
on the firewall. [music] So let's start
filling this out. All right. So we're
going to go ahead and enable this here.
And we're going to set the admins here
declaratively. So we'll do admins
equals. And for me, I like to do admin
at domain. So pretty common convention.
Now for the SSL certificates, we're
going to set theert path equal to var
lib acme domain
and that'll be fullchain.pm. And for the
key, we're going to set the same path
there, but it's just going to be key. So
this will configure global SSL and TLS
certificates for encrypted connections.
And this is going to point to let's
encrypt certificates which are managed
by Acme. So we also want HTTP file
sharing enabled so that users can send
up to 100 megabyte files through the
XMPPP server. So what we're going to do
for that is do http fileshare and we're
going to make the domain equal the
upload domain which is [music] going to
be upload.xmpp.ton
by the way.com which we've declared at
the top of the file. And then for the
upload file size limit, we'll do upload
file size limit. And that's going to be
100 * 1024 * 1024. So that'll be 100
megabytes. All right. So let's actually
set up the multiuser chat room here. So
that's going to be MU. So for the MU,
we'll do MU. We'll do domain and we're
going to set that to the MU domain. And
the name of that is going to be whatever
you want. So for me, I'm going to do
chat rooms. And let's set restrict room
creation to false. So we can actually
create rooms. All right, almost done
with this file here. We do want to add a
virtual host block here. So we're going
to do virtual hosts.domain.
And for that virtual host, we're going
to enable it. And we'll set the domain
to domain. So it's going to be that
XMPPP. Tony, by the way. Now for the
SSL, we're actually going to use the
same block above here for this virtual
host. So we'll just paste that in. And
that ensures that this virtual host has
the same file path for the SSL
certificates. All right. So now we need
to add some modules. And these are going
to be some pro city specific modules.
And these are some of the ones that I
like. So So we're going to definitely
enable roster which will give us contact
lists. We want SASL authentication so we
can authenticate. We're going to set TLS
to true. That's going to be an
encryption module. We want dialback that
is serverto-s server verification. We
want disco as well. Disco is a module
that allows [music] service discovery.
We're going to enable carbons which is a
module that allows you to synchronize
messages across devices. We are going to
enable PEP as well here. And [music]
this is important for the personal
eventing protocol giving you things like
avatars, status, etc. We're going to
enable MAM or message archive
management. So we can have message
history. We're going to keep pings alive
here by enabling the ping module. And
then for me, I like the admin ad hoc
module because that gives us access to
admin commands. And then HTTP files
so we can upload files there. And that's
good here for a sort of minimal module
list. And a list for all these modules
are going to be available here in the
Pro City community module website. And
I'll put a link to this list below the
subscribe button. So you can take a look
at this list and see if any modules
apply to your server that you're going
to want. And one more thing I want to do
here is disable registration. So we'll
turn allow registration to false. It'll
make it easy so that nobody can register
to your personal server. If you want to
allow people to register, you can omit
this part and then create accounts for
other people for your server. But yeah,
that looks good for the pro city service
configuration. So we can move on to the
Acme config and the engine X config and
then we'll be good to go. So I'm just
going to fold those lines here with ZF
and we're going to make a group here.
users.groups.serts
members. We'll put proity and enginex in
here. That'll create a group so both
procity and engineext can read the SSL
certificates. All right. So, let's move
on to the Acme configuration. So, we'll
do security.acme
and let's set this [music] up here. So,
we're going to accept the terms and then
the defaults. I'm going to put Tony at
Tony by the way.com. You just put your
email address. For theerts, we're going
to doerts.domain.
And the group is going to be the search
group we just made. The web route will
be var lib acme acme challenge. And then
the postr run it's going to be systemctl
reload procity.
So that means that every time the
certificate is validated or refreshed
the procity service will get restarted.
And then to ensure that theerts are
actually going to validate all the
domains, let's add an extra domains flag
here. We'll put the muk domain in here
and the upload domain. That way we can
just create one certificate that will
cover all three domains. And that looks
good. So we can move on to the engine X
block and go from there. All right. So
for engineext, we'll do
services.engineext.
Just going to enable that obviously. And
then we will set up virtual hosts inside
of this engine X here. And we'll do
locations/wellnown
acme challenge.root.
And we're going to set that equal to var
lib acme acme challenge. Let's also set
a returned 404 as well because this is
not a real website. So why we need an
engine x web server on top of the proced
server is so that we can serve the acme
challenge files for let's encrypt domain
verification. So we need to return 404
for any other route since it's not
really a website. And yeah, that'll be
it for now. If you have a matrix server
already, similar to the XMPPP server,
and you have a spot for well-known Acme
Challenge certificate validation, you
don't need to double dip and add this.
I'm going to add it for this tutorial
because on this machine, it's just going
to be an XMPPP server. All right, last
thing we need to do in this file is to
open up some firewall ports here. It's
going to be port 80 for the Acme
Challenge, http, and then we need 443
open for the HTTPS file uploads. And
then we're going to need to open 5281
for Pro Cities HTTP upload port. And
then we're also going to need 5222 open
for the XMPPP client connections. And
then we're also going to need 5269 open
for the XMPPP server federation. And
yeah, with these ports open, it looks
like we've got a functioning XMPPP
server. So in theory, we should be able
to just run a pseudo Nixos rebuild
switch and we'll be good to go here. So,
what I'm going to do is Nyx Flake update
to make sure all my packages are up to
date. All right. What I'll do here is
I'll run a pseudo Nixos rebuild
switch-fliles
directory. And the host is Nixxos, by
the way.
And that looks good to go. So, looks
like we didn't make any typos there.
What we're going to need to do now is
ensure that our Pro CD server is running
and then yeah, we can go from there. So,
let's do a systemctl status proced.
There we go. Looks like it's active and
good to go here. Now to create the
account, you can do a pseudo procity
add user. And you can make an account
here. I'm going to make test at
xmppp.tonby
way.com. We're going to make a password
for this user. So you already know it's
going to be. So we've created a test
user here, test atxP.by
way.com through the procdctl command
line here. And now in theory, we should
be able to use a client and log in. So,
I'm going to go ahead and swap over to a
different machine here and show you guys
what that looks like. All right. So,
I've logged into test atxP.tononyby.com.
And now what I can do is join a group
chat. And we're going to add this group
chat. It's going to be again
tonybyconference.xmpp.tonbyway.com.
This is just going to be Tony by the
way. So, we'll join that. And there we
go. We are in the group chat now. So we
can just simply say, "Hey guys, I'm
posting from a test account made from a
live demo." And yeah, this is sent from
2027 here. So there we go. Converse.js
is nice for for a browser client. Not
bad. But again, I would recommend
something like Gajim over that for
non-leacy dros. And for more information
on Gajjim, you can go to gajim.org.
Click install. And again, I'm not sure
what these distributions are. For Mace
OS, it looks like they've got some
options. Never heard of that DRO. And
then for I guess this is maybe a phone
distro. Not sure. They've got options
for these two dros. But let's check the
mainline Linux distributions here. And
as you can see here, we have
availability on tons of legacy dros. So
for example, Arch Linux in the extra
repository. Looks like Debian 14 if
you're into that. We've got Forky. It's
available on Debian SID as well. So
yeah, lot of availability for these
legacy dros. Now what I'm going to do is
I'm going to NYX packages. So that's
available on 2511 and unstable. So
that's good for us. But if you are on
the other non legacy DRO, let's take a
look on how to get that here. Looks like
it is outdated on Geeks. So your mileage
may vary with that. So I would encourage
you to shoot a message to Tronda and
he'll be able to assist you on setting
up Gajim on Geeks. Yeah, like I said,
Gajim looks pretty clean. It's got my
Matrix bridge set up so I can interact
with people from Matrix inside of my
XMPPP client and not have to worry about
managing several clients. But yeah, so
that's going to wrap up the video today.
You're going to have an XMPPP identity.
You're going to have full federation
with your entire XMPPP network. You'll
have group chats that don't replicate to
other servers. You're going to have file
sharing with 100 megabyte uploads.
You'll have message history and no
liability for federated content. You
know, the best part about this is you're
not going to have to submit any DNA or
biometric scanning information to any
threeletter agency. You can just create
this server and own it yourself. So,
thanks so much for checking out the
video. And if you have any free and open
source software or Linux/BSD
related software questions you'd like me
to go over, just drop a comment and I
will put it in the pipeline. And as
always, I wouldn't be able to end the
video without an obligatory Neochetch.