Check this out. What you are looking at
is an LLM running inside my home. It's
actually on that mini PC back there. And
I'm getting over 40 tokens per second
using this particular model to get a
very decent answer to this JavaScript
question that I just asked it. So, in
this video, we're talking all about
local AI. I am going to show you the
machine that I got, talk about its
specs, talk about your options when it
comes to hardware for running local AI,
and really just try to answer the
question, can a mini PC like this
replace a $200 subscription to an AI
company. I'm also going to dive into
what models are available and really
just show you all the things that I've
tried in terms of just basic prompting,
hooking it up to MCP tools or tool
servers and then using it inside my
editor and also some more agentic
workflows as well to really just give
you my opinions on all this stuff and
and you can decide whether or not you
want to get into this as well. That
sounds good. Let's dive in. My name is
CJ. Welcome to Syntax.
All right, let's talk about hardware and
some key terms and things you should
know if you're getting into this world
of local AI. First up, we're talking
about inference. So, whenever you type a
question into ChatGpt or Claude or
whatever LLM you use, that is performing
inference. It's essentially taking a
model that's already been trained.
You're passing in some new text and then
it's predicting the output text. So,
this is known as inference and that's
what I'm doing with my local AI. It's
also possible to train your own model or
fine-tune an existing model. That is
something I have not tried yet and not
something I was optimizing for when I
was looking for some hardware. So
inference is what we're trying to do.
The next thing to know is that we need
GPUs for this. So this is a video from
three blue one brown. It's called large
language models explained briefly.
There's a whole series on neural
networks from three blue one brown. But
they talk about how GPUs basically have
tons of processors inside of them and
can do tons of parallel processing. So
they're much more powerful than just a
CPU and that they can do a lot of things
in parallel. And these models are
basically just big old matrices of
numbers. And GPUs can essentially
perform these calculations across all
these matrices of numbers really really
fast. So we're performing inference and
we need a GPU to do that. Now for any
given model that you're trying to run
inference on, you need a whole lot of
memory. This article here talks about uh
some basic calculations that you can do.
And let's say you're trying to run a 70
billion parameter model. We'll talk
about what the various parameter sizes
are, but the base calculation here is
that if you're running this model at
full precision, that would need 140 GB
of video memory. So it's a lot. The
other aspect to think about is not only
do you need video RAM for the model
itself because essentially when you're
running these models, they have to fit
the whole thing into VRAM so they can
process quickly. You also need to care
about the key value cache. So every
prompt that you type in needs to be
vectorized so that it can be run through
the model. And if you had to do that
every single time for every word or
every prompt that you're giving it, it
would take a whole lot longer. So the
way a lot of these things are set up is
it essentially pre-calculates the
vectors and then reuses those on each
subsequent prompt. So you also need VRAM
to hold on to that cache as well. So all
of this is mounting up to you need GPUs,
you need a whole lot of RAM. Now we
talked about this 70 billion parameter
model running at 16 bit precision. there
is this idea of quantization and that's
essentially taking an existing model
that's at half precision then basically
dumbing it down a little bit and uh kind
of rounding all of the numbers that
exist inside of the model. So at full
precision you would need 140 gigabytes
of RAM. But if you dumb down the model
just a little bit uh to 8 bit precision
or 4-bit precision, you're actually
going to get to the point where a 70
billion parameter model maybe only needs
70 gigabytes of video memory memory or
30 gigabytes of video memory depending
on the quantization. Now, if you want to
learn more about quantization, there's a
fantastic article here from Martin
Gutenorst called a visual guide to
quantization. Talks about what it is.
It's fascinating,
but all you need to know is that these
models that you're going to be trying to
run locally come in different sizes and
quantizations. A great place to start,
and what I've been using to learn about
these models and and figure out how to
run them, is Unsloth. Now, Unsloth also
has a lot of guides on fine-tuning
models, that is taking an existing model
and potentially repurposing it for
something else or something that you're
trying to do. But they also have a lot
of guides on just running the the models
that they themselves have quantized. Um,
so this page here runs through a bunch
of models, but just as an example, if we
look at Quinn 3.5, which is one of the
best local models you can run right now.
On the page for that model, they give
you a chart that shows you the various
precisions, the uh various models with
their various number of parameters. So
27 billion parameters, 35 billion
parameters, and then for each precision,
how much video memory is required to
load that model in. So you can start to
see as you find these models, you're
going to need to find a GPU that has
enough memory uh to load the model
itself plus a little more memory for the
key value cache as well. So with all of
that base knowledge, now you need to
find yourself a GPU and it is not cheap.
So just looking on a PC part picker, uh
this is a place where you can like build
your own machines. I went in and just
I'm looking at video cards now and you
can see just sorted by memory, a video
card with 48 gigabytes of memory. This
is an RTX 6000 is $7,000. And of course,
it depends on where you buy it. So like
the RTX A6000 is like $1,000 less. You
could potentially run an AMD GPU with a
similar amount of video memory for like
half the price, but then you're also
going to potentially run into uh
compatibility issues because certain
platforms only run on AMD or versus run
on Nvidia. So right off the bat, video
cards themselves the are are steep. So,
right, if you wanted to build a machine
just with this 48 GB memory video card,
your base price is 7,000. That's not
including memory, CPU, a motherboard,
everything else. PC Part Picker, for
whatever reason, only has these are
basically like consumer grade uh GPUs.
And right now, I don't know why, I can
only see up to 40 GB of memory. They do
make consumer GPUs that have more
memory. So, if you look at the RTX Pro
6000, this has 96 GB of memory, but it's
almost $10,000.
Um, and there are other ones. They're
also like enterprise level GPUs. Uh, but
all of that to say, you need a GPU with
a lot of memory. And GPUs with a lot of
memory are very expensive. One of the
first platforms to try to make this more
accessible for people trying to run
local AI was Nvidia with their DGX Spark
platform. So, it's this little machine
right here that actually has 128 GB of
memory, unified memory that can be used
for either the video card that's on it
or the the CPU itself. Um, and this
makes it so that you can have a single
machine and not need a really expensive
GPU and run some of these models. So,
this 128 GB of memory is shared between
the GPU and the CPU. But that means you
can load a 70 billion parameter model
and have room for the the key value
store on that particular machine. Now
the DGX Spark is a little more
approachable in terms of price. It has,
like I said, 128 GB of unified memory
and around $4,000. So that's great. You
could start there. But AMD came along
and they brought us the AIAX 395
processor,
which has really good scores. all of
their charts here, they're comparing it
to an Intel i7, which is not comparable
because it doesn't use the unified
memory architecture. But all that to
say, their platform, very similar to the
DGX Spark, um, uses a unified memory
architecture and is a lot more um,
approachable in terms of price. Now,
when I say unified memory, you might be
thinking of Apple because they were the
first ones to do it with their M1
architecture back in 2020. Um, but
essentially with a traditional setup,
you have a CPU that's talking to the RAM
that you plug into the motherboard and
then you have a GPU which has onboard
video RAM b baked into it and then they
communicate with each other over PCIe.
With the unified architecture, there is
unified memory that's accessible by the
CPU, the neural processing unit, and the
GPU. And like I mentioned, Apple was one
of the first to do this. So back in 2020
when they released the M1, they came out
with this unified architecture. And
that's why you could also run these
local LLMs on Macs as well. But AMD is
what I decided to go with. And that
little machine running back there is an
AMD Stricks Halo machine. So Stricks
Halo is like the code word for the 395
processor with the unified architecture.
If you go to the Stricks Halo wiki, they
actually list out all of the types of
machines that run this processor. And
you might be familiar with the framework
desktop. And this machine runs that
exact same processor. You you might have
seen people getting it for running
local. This is very similar, but this
one is is a bit more approachable in
terms of of price. So, right now, if you
look on MicroEnter, uh the machine that
I have is selling for $2,500. So, of all
the stuff we've shown so far, this is
probably one of the most approachable in
terms of price. And then, like I
mentioned, there are other platforms
that have the same processor with
unified memory, but are from Minis Forum
or from HP. There's a few others as
well, like I showed in that wiki. All of
them a little more expensive than the
one that I got, which is the GMT Evo X2.
Now, I bought this thing 2 or 3 months
ago, and I got it for uh $2,100,
but with the increase in the price of uh
RAM and everything else, this stuff is
only getting more expensive. Um, so I
bought in early. This is still a fairly
reasonable price to be able to run the
kinds of things that I'm going to show
you, but this is all the research that I
did. It's a whirlwind tour. I'll provide
links to all the stuff I showed you in
the description if you want to look into
this stuff more. Um, and of course, like
I mentioned, you also could go with a
Mac or Mac Studio because Mac Studios
you can get 128 GB of unified memory or
256 or 512, but the price is a little
bit more. Now, when I bought the GMT
Evo, like I said, I paid $2,100. And at
the time, it would have been $1,000 more
just to get the Mac Studio with the same
amount of unified memory. And so, I just
went with that. At this point with the
price of everything increasing, you're
kind of getting to the point where it's
almost the same price to get like this
HP or this minis forum or the framework
desktop and it's probably about the same
as a Mac Studio. Um, so you can you can
weigh those options. The other thing to
consider though is with a Mac you have
to run Mac OS. Now there is AI Linux. I
have not looked into if people are
trying to do local with AI Linux but
typically you would just stick with Mac
OS. So that might limit you in what you
can actually run. But with these PCs,
they usually come with Windows, but you
can wipe them, install Ubuntu, install
Fedora, and then get access to a lot
more uh community packages and workflows
where people have been tweaking and
working with this stuff to try to get
local AI running. So that was a whole
lot to take in, but all of that to say,
I have landed on this machine here, and
let me show you how I set it up. Now,
the machine I got was the GMK Tech Evo
X2. And uh it's it's a nice little
machine. Now, in terms of IO, on the
front, we've got an SD card reader, a
USBC, which is USB 4, two USB 3.2 ports,
and a 3.5 mm headphone jack. On the
back, you've got the DC power in,
another headphone jack, a USB 3.2 port,
another USBC port, you've got display
port, HDMI, and then two USB 2 ports.
We've also got a 2.5 gigabit Ethernet
adapter. Now, in terms of sizing, it's
about one bread by one bread and half a
bread wide. It's also got these nice
little feet on the bottom so you can
stand it upright. And you do want to use
it in this way. Look at that little
buddy. Uh because of all the airflow.
Comes with a power cable and an HDMI
cable as well as the power brick which
is a 230 W brick running at about 19.5
volts. So nice little machine. Let's get
this thing set up. Now when you boot it
up for the first time, you do get
Windows. It actually took quite a while
before it got to the initial Windows
screen. And while I was waiting, I found
this button on the side which changes
the RGB color. And uh yeah, Windows took
forever to boot. So, I didn't even go
through the getting started. I
immediately plugged in a USB drive that
has the uh Fedora installer on it. And
then I went through the BIOS and updated
all of the recommended settings in terms
of performance mode, how much memory to
allocate to the video card, and a few
other options that I found by going
through the wiki and the forums. Now,
this was actually my first time
installing Fedora. I prefer Ubuntu and
run it on all my machines, but Madora is
pretty cool. Pretty cool. So, the the
install was pretty seamless. And they
also had an option to enable the
administration tools, which I didn't
know what it was going to do. But the
first time it booted up, it immediately
made itself available over the web. And
that means I could actually just go back
to my computer. I didn't even need to
SSH into it. I could go to the web
dashboard and actually start configuring
it. They have a built-in terminal there
and I can see all of the status of it's
running. So, this is actually some
software called Cockpit. And I've run
this software on my Ubuntu machines, but
it comes from Fedora and it's really
cool that out of the box you can get
this up and going. So, the moment your
install is done, you can immediately
head to a browser and start configuring
your machine. Now, one of the first
things I needed to do for this machine
is to enable some settings for GTT,
which is how Linux is able to allocate
memory for the video card or for the
CPU. So, there are quite a few guides
out there. There's one from Jeff
Gearling that helped initially, but uh
this particular stricks Halo machine
used different options for setting how
much video RAM should be allocatable.
And so, once I figured out those
settings, I was good to go. Essentially,
we're allocating up to 108 gigabytes for
the video card. And like Jeff Gearling
mentions, this essentially allows it to
run stable. Anything more, and it might
kernel panic every now and then. So, we
essentially have 20 GB for the OS and
everything else that's running of RAM
and up to 108 GB that we can use for all
of our AI workflows. All right, our
hardware is all set up. Now, we need to
actually run some models. And there's a
lot of different ways to do this as
well. Olama is probably one of the most
popular platforms. Essentially, it's a
CLI tool. It can download models and
then run them locally. There's also LM
Studio, which is a desktop app. They
also have like a CLI tool where you can
manage the downloaded models and then
they give you a chat GPT like interface.
And then there's also VLLM, which is
commonly used to cluster and network
your uh computers together so you can
run LLMs at scale. And then there is
also Llama CPP. And this is actually
what I've settled on. So, Llama CPP in a
lot of benchmarks is one of the most
fastest and they actually pioneered the
format that a lot of these other tools
use, the GGUF file format. So, Llama CPP
is what I went with and in order to get
it set up, it's pretty involved. But
fortunately, there are community
packages and libraries for this. So,
shout out to Cuz who's created this AMD
Stricks Halo Toolbox, which essentially
out of the box gets you ready to go with
Llama CPP on any machine that has this
Ryzen AI 395 on it. And all of this is
based off of this standard for toolbox.
So, toolbox essentially works on top of
Docker or Podman to package up various
dependencies and things that you might
need to get something running. And so
that's exactly what Kuzo has done for
these toolboxes because when you're
running Glamma CPP on the Andy Stricks
Halo, you're going to need special
drivers. You're going to need various
things that are set up and ready to go.
And you can do all of that manually.
Like even at this point, when I was
trying to set this up without the
toolbox, you'd have to compile Llama CPP
from scratch. Essentially, these
toolboxes come with pre-ompiled
versions, so you're just ready to go.
And once you've installed the toolbox
CLI, it's just one command to spin up
that toolbox. And now you can start
running Llama CPP inside that toolbox.
It's fully optimized. Everything's
compiled. You're good and ready to go.
Now there's two different toolboxes to
choose from. There is Vulcan and Rockm.
Vulcan is essentially the open- source
implementation of the AMD drivers. And
then RockM uses the proprietary drivers,
but in my tests, RockM does give the
best performance. So that's the toolbox
that I went with. So you run this one
command on your machine, and then you're
ready to go. You're ready to start
running some models. Now, in the readme
for this project, they show a command
that will use the hugging face CLI to
download the Quinn3 coder 30B at BF16
precision. So, that's that full
precision and it comes in two different
files. But if you want to start picking
your own models and running your own
stuffs, first of course, install the
hugging face CLI. So, this will give you
access to the hf command and then you
can start pulling models from hugging
face. So, hugging face is the most
popular place for people to host models
and also download models. And since
we're using Llama CPP, if you head to
the HuggingFace models page, you can
filter by Llama CPP and then every
single model that you see here will run
under Llama CPP and they typically
include the recommended settings for
running that specific model. Now, when
you're looking through these models, you
will notice there's a lot from Unsloth.
They're the ones that I mentioned
earlier in the video. Essentially, they
create quantized versions of models and
provide guides for fine-tuning them.
Like I showed earlier, all of these
models they basically have guides for.
But next thing you need to do is
actually pick a model. And what you'll
do is once you get into the model page
over on HuggingFace, you can take a look
at the model card here and see all of
its quantizations. So you can see Kimmy
K 2.5 in this format at full precision
is 2 terabytes for the model alone. And
then if you look at some of the other
quantizations that the size gets smaller
and smaller as you go. And so for the
machine that I have, it has 128 GB of
unified memory. only about 108 of that
is accessible as video memory if you
want to run things in a stable way. So
any one of these models I could not run.
Essentially you can look at the size of
the model. That's how much video RAM
it's going to take up. So we can't run
Kimmy K25. There is Miniax M2.5 and you
can see in the 3bit quant we have a
model that is 101 GB. So you could run
that one. In my testing, it works, but
because we only have a few more
gigabytes to work with after that's
already loaded in, your context size is
limited to maybe 4,000 or so tokens. So,
it works, but it starts to slow down the
larger your prompts get. You could
potentially try the smaller
quantizations, but as they get smaller,
they get a little bit dumber. Um, and
then there's Quint 3 coder 30B A3B
Instruct. And this is the one that I
have been using. It's been fantastic.
It's been really good. I'll show you
some of my tests next, but you can see
that the 4-bit quantized version is
under 20 GB, so there's plenty of room
for like really long context windows.
And you could probably even run the
higher precision ones and still have
room for large context windows. So,
you'll pick a tool for running your
models. You'll pick which model you want
to run, take into account how big that
model is, take into account what the
format is, is it going to work with the
platform that you're running with, and
then you're ready to go. Now, let's just
talk about overall impressions for just
prompting the AI. Now, I've been using
Quinn 3 coder next and then also the
Quinn 3.5 model. And for one-off
questions, it's pretty decent. It is
technically accurate for simple
questions. It can generate CLI commands.
It can answer questions about various
popular JavaScript libraries. All of
that seems to work perfectly fine. And
especially if you hook it up to some
tools like web search or documentation
search. So, I got the open web UI up and
running and connected it to my llama
server and enabled the web search tool.
And so, now whenever you prompt, it can
actually search the web and then use the
results from the web to ground its
answer in the truth instead of
potentially hallucinating something. And
so, I also found this very reasonable in
terms of how it was able to summarize
things. Yeah, I will say it's a little
bit slower than something like chatbt or
claude, but it is running inside my
house on that little machine back there.
So like I I can I can take that. Uh and
also a lot of times you might fire off a
query, come back to it later. That's
totally fine. So personally I see myself
replacing claude chatgptemini
with this for my initial searching of
the web and initial question asking. It
works perfectly fine for that. I don't
have to worry about these AI companies
being trained on my prompts and this is
working great. So for basic question
answering and basic searching and
summarizing from the web, this has
absolutely replaced my usage of Claude
chatgbt Gemini and now I can do it from
the comfort of my own home. Now when it
comes to coding, there's still some
things that need to be worked out. It's
not perfect. If you want to use VS Code,
you have to use the insider version of
VS Code. That's like the pre-release
version. And then you can only use it
for agentic workflows. You can't use it
for autocomplete. There are plugins and
extensions that work inside of just
regular VS code, but that essentially
replaces Copilot altogether. So there's
this tool I tried called continue, and
it basically works like Copilot, but you
can customize which AI endpoint it talks
to. So I can point it directly at my
little machine back there that's running
locally. And uh it works exactly like
you would expect in Copilot, right? It
has a chat window. It has agentic
workflows where it can create files and
I found that trying to create projects
from scratch using this particular
workflow. The AI struggled at various
points. So I would have to intervene
every now and then to fix a config issue
or tell it oh you're editing the wrong
file or you put it in the wrong place.
Um so it really couldn't do it unguided
from like basic prompts. However, if you
start to use more structured tooling, so
if you try to do more spec driven
development, that absolutely keeps this
in line a lot more. And that's really my
guidance here if you're going to try to
use this for bigger workflows is you
have to be specific about the prompts
that you pass it and try to use sub aent
workflows. So, I also got this hooked up
to open code. And from my experience,
that's the best way to work with local
AI because it's supported out of the
box. It can do sub agents. It has a
web-based dashboard so I can prompt from
the couch. Um, and I can hook this up to
tools like beads for task management or
spec kit for doing the initial spec and
design of what I'm trying to build and
then from there creating beads tasks and
then from there having an agent
orchestrator that then spins up sub
aents. So if you keep guard rails around
what you're asking this little AI to do
and you have lots of ways for it to
verify itself. So if you have tests, if
you have linting and type checking, all
of those things are going to be ways for
it to verify itself instead of just
guessing. And that's basically what I
found when I was trying to create a
project from scratch with a basic
prompt. It it started to break down.
Right now, you can do that kind of thing
with Claude Opus 4.6 and it works
perfectly fine. But with some of these
dumber models, they need checks and
balances. So anything you can do that
allows them to verify themselves will
keep them in line a whole lot more. So I
found having extensive test suites,
having that spec drawn out beforehand,
having it run through all of those
checks before moving on to the next
thing, having it work on only isolated
work at a time and and in this this uh
try things out test repeat cycle that
got it to stay aligned much more. So it
requires a lot more work and it requires
a lot more managing of these agents to
get it working on this little machine
here. But again, you don't have to pay a
monthly subscription. It's a onetime
cost and AI companies don't have access
to the source code that you're
generating. So, there are some
trade-offs. To really answer the
question, am I going to cancel my Claude
subscription? No. Right now, I'm I'm
actually getting some really good use
out of Cloud Opus 4.6 uh for some
various personal projects that I'll be
talking about eventually, but um the
kind of work that I'm doing there, it's
just not it's too complex for for this
little machine. Now, like I mentioned,
if you have the right guard rails, if
you have tests and and uh all of the
things set up in a way that can allow
this little machine back there to work
within guidelines, you can get it
working, but it's a lot more work. It's
it's much easier for me to prompt in a
more general way to something like Cloud
Opus 4.6, and it figures out what I need
without all the handholding. Now, I will
say that these models that are being
released by uh these companies like the
openw weightight models from Quinn and
and GLM 4.7 and Kimmy K2.5 and Miniax
2.5 um all of these models are really
decent for being local models and
they're only going to get smaller and
they they're only going to get better.
So that's one of the cool things about
this whole ecosystem is if you just wait
a month or two, a new model will be
released and all of a sudden the same
hardware that you already have can
actually have better capabilities
because of the models that have been
released. So for me, that's the exciting
thing is being able to tinker with these
things. Um, and like I mentioned
earlier, be able to to prompt these LLMs
from the privacy of my own home without
AI companies training on my prompts. So
that's all I got for you in this video.
Let me know down in the comments if
you're going to try this out. Also, let
me know if you're already trying this
out. Let me know what hardware you're
working with. And if you have any
questions about how I set things up or
anything else like that, throw those
down in the comments as well. All right,
I'll see you in the next one.