So, I recently did a video on the whole
idea of self-hosting, hosting your own
things so that you can cancel some of
your subscriptions, things like photo
backup, file backup, things like that.
However, the device that I covered in
that video is quite pricey. So, I just
thought to myself, hey, you can have a
lot of the same experience by using an
old Mac that you might already have. So,
if you have a Mac Mini or maybe you
bought a new Mac Mini or you have an old
MacBook Air like this one that I have
here, you can use it to basically get a
lot of the same experience, but you are
missing out on a few other things
because of course with a device like the
Umbrell Pro. It's housed in one unit. It
has a dedicated Ethernet port and it
also has four upgradeable MVME slots,
which let's be honest, we're not going
to get that anytime soon on any of these
Mac devices. What I really liked about
that device though was the OS, Umbrell
OS. So, you can get other cheaper
devices like the Umbrell Pro the device
they have, but they won't have as many
features of functionality. But it's the
OS I think that actually matters a lot
because I think that when you have an OS
that looks great, it's easy to use and
easy to set up and just get going. It
can really make a difference on
self-hosting and make it a lot easier
and more accessible to a lot more
people. And the great thing about
Umbrell OS is that you can install it on
older machines or just a Mac that you
have laying around that you're not
using. You can set it up so that you
almost have your own self-hosting server
sort of thing, but it's on your Mac
instead. So, the first thing we need to
do is install Docker Desktop for Mac.
So, Docker is like the best way I can
explain it, it's like a virtual machine
or an OS on top of your Mac OS. So, the
great thing is we are going to leave Mac
OS as it is. We're not going to mess
around with anything like that. you're
still going to have Mac OS. Docker is
just like a a thing that can run other
things basically. And we're going to
install Umbrella OS on Docker. We first
need to get the Docker Desktop, which
I'll leave a link to in the description.
And yeah, they just have a quick guide
here on how to install Docker Desktop on
the Mac. But the first thing we're going
to do is we're actually going to install
Rosetta. So, we can see here we have a
command for software update install
Rosetta. Let's copy that. Then we're
going to go to terminal. Open that up
like so. I feel like the terminal could
be quite scary for most people, but all
we're going to do is we're going to
paste in that command, hit enter. Then
it's going to ask us to type a and then
press enter again. So, now that we have
that installed, we're going to then
download the Docker desktop. Now, we
need to make sure we download the
correct one. We're going to download the
Apple silicon one because I have I can't
remember what chip I have in here, but I
have an M chip in here. So, let's
download that. Cool. We're downloaded.
We're going to open it, and then we're
just going to drag our Docker app to the
applications like so.
Let it copy over. 2 and a half gig.
Should take less than a minute as it
says. Cool. Now we've got it installed.
We're going to go to our applications.
So I'm actually just going to search for
it. I'm going to search for it like so.
Docker. Open it up. Yep. Accept the
service agreement. Use recommended
settings. Let's just go with that.
Background items detected. Yes. Allow.
Cool. We've also got a command thing
here. So let's install that. We want to
make sure that we install the Python
whatever it is package.
Well, it's saying it's going to take 58
hours. It definitely is not going to
take 58 hours. We have the Python
package installed now. And now we have
our Docker desktop app. Uh let's search
for Umbrell in the search bar. Uh let's
pull that.
Uh it is in there. Containers. Is it in
the containers? Images. Here we go. And
then if we run it, run,
we have this issue, right? So I was
having an issue trying to install Docker
from the desktop app. So when I search
for Umbrella in here and I tried to
install it, yeah, it just kind of just
didn't want to work really. So I was
asking Claude how to troubleshoot and it
just gave me this command here to run in
the terminal, which is what we're going
to do. So, we're going to open up the
terminal and we're going to paste that
command in. Boom. And it looks like we
should be ready to go. So, once we go to
containers, yep, we can see it running
there. And we have Umbreel OS running
perfectly. Now, we just need to set up
Umbrell OS. So, we're just going to make
our account. So, this is the account
that's actually going to be on Umbreal.
This isn't like going online or anything
like that. This is local to your
machine. It's just creating a password
gateway so that not everyone can just
access your Umbrell on the network. So,
we're just going to make an account very
quickly. Create account. Cool. Umbrell
OS is now ready. Next. And we are
running. Like it's as simple as that. It
literally takes less than 5 minutes. And
now I have Umbrell OS running on my Mac.
And the great thing is now I can install
apps. So they recommend some apps that
you can get going with straight away.
Nexcloud is basically like a Google
Drive or Dropbox alternative. Image is
like a iCloud alternative where you can
use it to back up photos and things like
that from your iPhone or from your iPad
or whatever and it will sync. Home
Assistant is a good way to run all of
your smart devices in your home in one
sort of network. So let's just say you
have Philips Hue lights and then you
also have Go View lights but you want
them to sort of work together, run
automations and stuff. You can do that
all through Home Assistant. You can also
install Plex. So, if you want to host
your own movies and TV shows, maybe
you're sick of paying for Netflix, you
can use Plex to do something like that
or Jellyfin. There's so many different
options here. But what I really like
most is the OS. Like, just look how nice
it looks. It looks like it could be a
Mac OS. We can actually make this full
screen like so. And now we pretty much
have our own OS on top of an OS. And it
works really, really well. Has the nice
dock at the bottom which you can use to
access things very quickly. So, we can
see our live usage, how much memory I
have, how much storage I have. We can
see our settings and mess around with
any settings that we need to in here. We
can go to the app store and we can
install any of the apps that Umbrell OS
sort of has access to. And there are a
ton here. You can pretty much find any
app for anything and everything. So,
it's really powerful how well umbrell OS
looks and works. You can install
OpenClaw. So, Open Claw right now is
obviously very, very popular. You can
install it and have it run on your Mac.
You can install tail scale. So tail
scale for those who don't really
understand what it actually is. It's the
idea of being able to access your
umbrella OS, your your Mac from a
network that's outside of your home. So
let's just say you're traveling, you're
at a hotel or whatever and you're trying
to access your files. You would use T
scale to do that and it does it in a
secure manner. There's actually so much
here. There's so many apps that I didn't
even know you could use on this. Like
it's crazy. You can even install your
own like um AI agents and stuff, AI
languages. Image is a really good one.
If you're someone who wants to back up
your photos and stuff from your iPhone,
but you don't want to use iCloud, you
want to have it on your own hard drive.
You can use image to do something like
this. However, I still do recommend
using some sort of cloud storage
solution or having multiple backups in
different locations because obviously
photos and videos, they're usually very
valuable memories that you don't want to
lose. And if you were to lose access to
your Mac, maybe it breaks, maybe it
catches fire or something like that.
Yeah, you're going to lose all those
photos and videos, you got to hope that
you still have them on your iPhone. This
is why this whole idea of a sort of 321
backup is very popular. The idea is that
you have three different copies on two
different devices in some way and then
you have one of those devices in a
different location. So, worst comes to
worse, like you have a sort of copy of
your data, of your information. Now, you
can actually take this a step further
and connect an external drive like this
to expand the storage because of course
you are limited by the storage on a Mac
Mini or a MacBook Air, especially with a
MacBook Air unless you spent the crazy
amounts of money that Apple required to
upgrade the uh the storage on them.
Yeah, like you're most likely going to
need something like this. And you don't
actually have to use an external SSD
like this. You can get a big old hard
drive bay which has like six drives in
it. Set it up as a RAID setup and then
use that to have a ton of storage and
then put the Mac and the hard drive bay
somewhere in a cupboard somewhere and
just leave it and access all of your
files that way. I'm not going to show
exactly how to set that up because it is
a bit more technical. But the idea is
then you basically have your own server
at home and you can self-host a ton of
different things and use it almost like
your own sort of home cloud network sort
of thing. And also, I do want to make
clear, you do not have to use Umbrella
OS. You can use whatever OS you like. I
think there's like Kasa OS as well, and
there's some other ones. The only reason
I chose Umbrella OS is because I like
the look of it. I like the way it works
and everything. I love how it has an app
store, so you can easily install apps
and stuff. It almost looks like if Apple
were to make their own sort of
self-hosting OS sort of thing, this is
what it would look like. So, this is why
I like to use it. So yeah, that is one
of the easiest ways to use an old Mac
and have your own sort of self-hosting
sort of thing going on. Hopefully you
guys enjoyed it. Follow me on Instagram
and Twitter and subscribe for more.