So, you saw my UB key playlist, but you
still have questions about multiffactor
authentication and why these little
hardware keys, like this one right here,
are loads better than using SMS codes or
codes sent to you in an app. Or maybe
you keep on seeing popups on your phone
asking you to set up a pass key and you
keep exiting out because what the heck
are those? Well, this video is for you.
This is your UB key 101 video designed
to explain the very basics of little
keys, these UB keys. What are they? Why
are they different from text or
authenticator app codes? And how in the
world do you set this thing up when you
first buy one? Now, with any security
and privacy upgrades like this one, the
biggest hurdle is going to be just
finding the time to set the thing up in
the first place. But once you get over
that part, the rest is going to be super
super easy. So, what's up, s'mores? I am
Shannon Morris. Welcome to my YouTube
channel. If you like practical security
tips without the doom, hit subscribe.
And if you are already subbed, thank you
so much for being here. I am working
with Ubico on a series of security
videos to show you how to upgrade your
digital privacy. [music]
So, thank you so much to Ubico for
sponsoring this educational video. My
channel sponsors are one of the reasons
I can keep on doing approachable
security content on this channel. So, if
you are also a fan of these keys, then
give them a shout out down in the
comments. So, first up, what is a UB
key? A UB key, like the one you see
here, is a little hardware security key
that looks a lot like a flash drive, but
instead of using it to store data, you
use it to prove to websites, servers, or
operating systems that you are who you
say you are. You physically plug this
into your device or you tap it on your
phone using NFC and that little movement
triggers an agreement with the website
that you are logging into. I will do a
separate video going into a ton of
detail explaining two-factor
authentication and multifactor
authentication or 2FA and MFA. But the
basics here are that most people just
use a username and password on websites
to log in. But some websites allow you
to add other pieces of required
information to log in. Usually that's
going to be a six-digit code that's
texted to you and you have to enter that
code into a website after your password.
But there are other more secure options
too. They just aren't advertised to
users as much. Now since those sixdigit
codes are human readable, they are
actual text that you can see with your
eyeballs and they can be stolen. The
ultra security option is going to be a
UB key. These are different because they
can do fishing resistant login
authentication using better standards
and no six-digit code that somebody
could copy. Now, in English, that's just
going to mean it helps make sure that
you are logging into a real website and
it removes the possibility of somebody
looking at a numerical code, memorizing
it, and stealing it. [music] The nerdy
part for all the nerds out there, I'm a
nerd, too. When you set up a UB key on
an online account that supports any of
these fancier protocols, your key
creates a special fingerprint for that
specific website. Later, when you want
to log into that website, the website
sends your phone or your computer a
challenge. Kind of like being carted at
a restaurant when you ask to order a
drink. And the UB Key is going to see
that challenge and it says, "No problem.
Here's the info you requested." You plug
in the key and the website sees the key
and it has to be your specific key cuz
this is the only one with the
fingerprint on it and it says, "Oh,
good. You have your key. Let me open the
door for you." And then it lets you log
in. This interaction proves to the
website that you are who you said you
are and it lets you log into your
account. So, the cool pro tip with this
is the fishing resistance. When a UB key
is supported on a website and you add a
UB key to your account on that website,
that key is tied to that specific
website. So even if you visit a fake
website that looks totally realistic,
like a legit clone of the actual website
you're trying to log into, the UB key
can tell that it's fake because the
website itself is going to be different.
The dot will be different and the fake
website cannot trick your key into
giving up any of its [music] secrets.
So, even if somebody stole your
password, they still couldn't get into
your accounts without your physical key,
too. Now, when you go out and you buy a
UB key, and if you buy one at Best Buy,
it actually comes in this kind of
packaging. It's super, super simple.
It's very simplistic, very, very easy to
open. Just one comes in the one that I
got, but you can actually get packages
that have two UB keys in them as well.
They're really cool. So, when you go out
and buy a UB key, there's several
different options. I generally just tell
people to get the one that has the
correct USB plug on the end. Like, do
your devices use USBC? This is USBC.
Then get the USBC one. And here's a
little pro tip. Get one that also
supports NFC. This one says USBC plus
[music] NFC on the side of the
packaging. So, I know that it supports
NFC, but NFC is going to be a little bit
more convenient, especially if you want
to use one of these with your phone.
Okay, now back to the nerdy speak.
Depending on the model and what you are
trying to protect, UB Keys can support
multiple authentication methods. The big
ones you're going to hear about are 502
or web offn. This is the one that most
people are going to want. It is best for
modern login. It supports fishing
resistant MFA. It also powers pass keys
depending on how a service implements
them. Another protocol is called U2F.
This one is a little bit older, but it's
still very common on many services. It's
also fishing resistant style security
key login. And the third protocol that's
really popular is OTP or one-time
passwords. These keys can generate or
output one-time codes for some systems,
very similar to how you get those
six-digit codes texted to you, but since
it's authenticating via a key, it's a
little bit more secure than getting a
text message code. It's very useful for
legacy scenarios in that case. And the
last big protocol is using these things
as a smart card or a PIV and open PGP
login. So this is for more advanced use
cases like workplace smart card login
certificates or PGP stuff. Awesome. But
not first security key territory for
most people. Chances are most users are
not going to be using a UB key for this
last experience unless it was given to
you for your job or if you're using it
for something like SSH sessions or for
decryption. And if all of that
terminology sounded really weird, you
don't really need to worry about it. So,
I generally recommend a UB5 series
device for most people. That's going to
cover most bases. It's going to cover
most use cases. And snag two of them if
you can. one can be your primary key and
the other one can be your secondary what
if I lose it key. Now, if you are still
here, I'm going to assume that you're
really interested in getting a better
grasp on all of this security stuff. So,
please consider subscribing to my
channel. I post cyber security news and
tutorials every single month, and you
can use my videos as a resource for your
questions about hacks and privacy. Hit
the subscribe button down below, and
thank you so much for subscribing. It is
completely free. Thank you so much for
supporting my channel. Okay, let's get
her set up. She's a pretty little key,
but we need to actually add some
accounts to this. So, a lot of people
get confused here because they think
that you need to create a UB key account
on the key or install batteries or add
the websites to the key, but you
actually don't. The key itself doesn't
require batteries or a setup or
anything. you will need to go to each of
the accounts that you already have
online like logging into your email
account or logging into your social
media account and you add the key to
your accounts on those different
websites. So, step number one, get two
keys. Do this first so you don't hate me
later. Get two keys if you can and
follow the setup guide for both of them
at once. One is your primary and one is
going to be your backup. Once you've got
them both set up, put the backup one
somewhere safe, like a small lock box or
a safe. Multiple guides recommend having
a backup key registered, not just me.
Step two is starting with your most
important accounts. So, start with your
email account. If somebody owns your
email, they can usually reset the
passwords for everything else. Email is
the keys to the kingdom account. That is
your like skeleton key. Since there are
lots of email services out there, use
your search engine of choice to search
how to set up a UB key with Gmail,
Proton Mail, Yahoo Mail, whatever you
use, and make sure to follow those
specific guides. Step number three, add
the key in the accounts security
settings. Now, this is going to be an
example flow, but it will vary by
service. So you go into your account
settings. [music]
Then you go and find something like
security or security and privacy account
security. There should be security in
the name somewhere. So click on whatever
the menu is for security settings. Then
you want to look for two-actor
authentication, multifactor
authentication, pass keys or security
keys and choose to add a security key to
your menu. This will begin the process
of setting up your UB key so that it's
connected to that online account. So,
you want to go through those menus in
the step-by-step guide which appears on
your screen and insert the key or tap
via NFC. Insert and tap via NFC whenever
you are prompted to do so. And just a
little side note here, sometimes on
specific websites, totally depending on
what protocol they use for the UB key,
it may ask you to set up or enter a PIN
code. So you will want to create a PIN
code if asked. So that brings me to step
number four. Set a PIN if asked and yes,
do it. So a PIN is going to add
protection if somebody physically steals
your key. Many services are going to
prompt for this during security key
setup, but not all of them. So, don't
worry if you're on a website and it
doesn't require you to add a PIN. The
PIN would add another layer on top of
your security. So, I think it's pretty
cool whenever a website does have this
protocol set up. You have your username
and your password, then you have your
physical key, and then you have the PIN
that's tied to this physical security
key. Step number five, save recovery and
backup codes. When you are going through
this process of first setting up your UB
key, when a service gives you recovery
or backup codes, make sure to save them
somewhere safe. Ideally, this would be
like printing them out and storing them
securely offline so they can't be hacked
and stolen. Because if you lose your key
and you don't have a backup key and you
don't have backup code methods, recovery
is going to be a whole side quest and
you might not be able to recover your
account at all. So, make sure you have
all of these backup steps ready just in
case of disaster. Now, I have a pro tip
here. I would advise taking a very
critical look at your own threat
modeling and taking into consideration
all the ways that you could lose access
to your [music] accounts. Do you live in
tornado alley? Are there fires that you
have to worry about or hurricanes? Are
you a highstakes target or do you work
in an agency or a sector with access to
proprietary data? Do you ride public
transit in a place with high theft? Do
you have a dog at home who could
potentially chew up your UB key? Ask me
how I know. Think about all those
different things and choose your
security response based on that threat
modeling. If you have a dog at home who
might chew up your UB key, you might
want to make sure your UB key is
protected in a lock box. Maybe keep your
secondary key offsite or in a fireproof
safe. You have to take future you into
consideration and make a plan for the
worst case scenario. I don't know your
life and I can only tell you what to do
based on my own scenarios. So build on
that and do what works best for you. All
right. Next I have an optional option
here. This is the UB key manager tools.
Now Ubico has tools like UB key manager
and documentation for managing features
depending on your model and your needs.
For most people doing basic web authents
like I just showed you, you often don't
need to mess with advanced settings. You
can just register it on your accounts
and you're good to go. And the next step
is pass keys versus security keys. So
pass keys are basically a friendlier
name for PHTO credentials used for
passwordless login. Ubico explains on
their own blog that there are copyable
pass keys that sync across devices that
could be like your smartphone and there
are also hardwarebound pass keys like a
Ubi key that stay on a portable
authenticator like this UB key that I
have right here. So the practical
takeaway here is this. Synced pass keys
are super convenient cuz they exist
[music] and can be associated with your
smartphone, your laptop, other devices
like that. They're synced in your
connected devices so you can use them
wherever you are. Hardwarebound pass
keys are a higher assurance option
because the credential stays on the
physical key. They're not going to be
synced into connected devices and you
can't save them up in a cloud. They only
exist on your hardware key. You can use
both. It depends on your threat model
and what you're protecting. I prefer
using the hardwarebound pass keys for my
most crucial accounts and then I just
choose whatever the most secure option
is available on each website or service
that I use. Step number nine, best
practices. Now, if you take anything
away from this video, let it be this
checklist. [music]
First, register a backup or a secondary
key. Second, use a PIN when available.
Third, lock your devices, especially if
you leave a key plugged in. Fourth,
protect your email and password manager
first. Number five, be picky where you
use OTP codes and prefer 502 or web
authen whenever possible. And six, set
up pass keys if available. And that is
it for UB key 101. So if you want in the
next video, we can go hands-on with
setting one up on a password manager. We
can use it with Google, Apple ID,
Microsoft, or social accounts. Tell me
in the comments what kind of video you
would like to see next. Are you using a
security key yet? If this helped, share
it with a friend who still uses SMS
codes for everything and is like one SIM
swap away from having a very, very bad
week. Thank you so much for watching and
I'll see you in the next one. And thank
you so much to Ubico for sponsoring this
video. I'll see you next time. And by
all.